

[Intro]
Okay I was gone for a minute but I'm back now
Sit the fuck back down
Seem like everybody nowadays Hollywood
Oh it’s like that now?
I'ma show you mothafuckas how to act now
I'ma show em how to act
I'ma show em how to act

[Verse 1]
Okay now picture little Bobby just a youngin' runnin' round
With his mans, hammer in his hands, feelin' like the man
Run, mothafucka, run
Before the popo get the gun, put it to your brain like goddamn!
Everybody know you ain't about it
Everything you talk about I know I can live without it
Red light, stop. Green light, go!
Everything ain't what it seem like
Mothafucka I know!
Hold up, what you mean, where you been?
Bitch I been in
This is merely the beginning again
What you been living in?
A box, under the bridge, like Anthony Kiedis?
Looking for something to complete us
And maybe lead us, fuck an elitist
Hell of a long way from equal is how they treat us
Body of a builder with the mind of a fetus
Turn on the television and see the vision they feed us
And I wish I could erase that, face facts

[Chorus]
Everybody people, everybody bleed, everybody need something
Everybody love, everybody know, how it go
Everybody people, everybody bleed, everybody need something
Everybody love, everybody know

[Verse 2]
I been knockin doors down like a Jehovah witness
God as my witness, I'm with this
But on the real I think I need another witness!
If it was 1717, black daddy, white momma wouldn't change a thing
Light skin mothafucka certified as a house nigga
Well I'll be God damned, go figure
In my blood is the slave and the master
It's like the devil playin spades with the pastor
But he was born with the white privilege!
Man what the fuck is that?
White people told me as a child, as a little boy, playin with his toys
I should be ashamed to be black
And some black people look ashamed when I rap
Like my great granddaddy didn’t take a whip to the back
Not accepted by the black or the white
I don't give a fuck, praise God, I could see the light
Everybody talkin' 'bout race this, race that
I wish I could erase that, face facts

[Chorus]
Everybody people, everybody bleed, everybody need something
Everybody love, everybody know, how it go
Everybody people, everybody bleed, everybody need something
Everybody love, everybody know

[Outro]
Okay I was gone for a minute but I'm back now
Sit the fuck back down
Seem like everybody nowadays Hollywood
Oh it's like that now?
I'ma show you mothafuckas how to act now
I'ma show em how to act
I'ma show em how to act

