

[Intro: Chris Brown]
I don’t see how you can hate from outside of the club
You can’t even get in!
Ha ha ha! Leggo!

[Verse 1: Chris Brown]
Yellow model chick, yellow bottle sippin'
Yellow Lamborghini, yellow top missin'
Yeah, yeah, that shit look like a toupee
I get what you get in ten years in two days
Ladies love me, I'm on my Cool J
If you get what I get, what would you say?
She wax it all off: Mr. Miyagi
And them suicide doors, hari-kari

[Chorus: Chris Brown]
Look at me now, look at me now (oh)
I’m gettin' paper
Look at me now (oh) look at me now (yeah)
Fresher than a muh'fucka

[Verse 2: Chris Brown]
Lil' nigga, bigger than gorilla
‘Cause I’m killin' every nigga that can try to be on my shit
Better cuff your chick if you with her, I can get her
And she accidentally slip and fall on my dick
Oops, I said "on my dick"
I ain’t really mean to say "on my dick"
But since we're talking about my dick
All of you haters say hi to it—I’m done

[Interlude: Busta Rhymes]
Ayo, Breezy, let me show you how to keep the dice rollin'
When you're doing that thing over there, homie! Let's go!

[Verse 3: Busta Rhymes]
‘Cause I'm feelin' like I’m runnin'
And I'm feelin' like I gotta get away, get away, get away
Better know that I don't and I won't ever stop
‘Cause you know I gotta win everyday-day
See, they really really wanna pop me
Just know that you will never flop me
And I know that I can be a little cocky
You ain't never gonna stop me
Everytime I come, a nigga gotta set it
Then I gotta go, and then I gotta get it
Then I gotta blow, and then I gotta show that
Any little thing a nigga think that he be doin'
‘Cause it doesn't matter, ‘cause I'm gonna da-da-da-da
Then I'm gonna murder everything and anything
A ba-da-boom, a ba-da-bing, I gotta do a lotta things
That make it clearer to a couple niggas
That I always win and then I gotta get it again
And again and then again and I be doin' it to death
And now I move a little foul, a nigga better call a ref
And everybody know my style and niggas know that I'm the best
When it come to doing this and I be bangin' on my chest
And I bang in the East and I'm bangin' in the West
And I come to give you more and I will never give you less
You will hear it in the street or you could read it in the press
Do you really wanna know what's next? (let's go!)
See the way we on and then we all up in the race
And you know we gotta go, don't try to keep up with the pace
And we strugglin' and hustlin' and sendin' in and gettin' in
And we always gotta do it, take it to another place
Gotta taste it, and I gotta grab it
And I gotta cut all through this traffic
Just to be at the top of the throne, better know I gotta have it

[Chorus: Chris Brown]
Look at me now, look at me now (oh)
I’m gettin' paper
Look at me now (oh) look at me now (yeah)
Fresher than a muh'fucka

[Verse 4: Lil Wayne]
Man, fuck these bitch-ass niggas! How y’all doin'?
I’m Lil Tunechi, I’m a nuisance
I go stupid, I go dumb like the Three Stooges
I don’t eat sushi, I’m the shit, no, I’m pollution, no substitution
Got a bitch that play in movies in my jacuzzi, pussy juicy
I never gave a fuck about a hater
Got money on my radar, dressed like a skater
Got a big house, came with a elevator
You niggas ain’t eatin’, fuck it, tell a waiter
Marley said shoot ‘em, and I said okay
If you wanted bullshit, then I’m like, "¡Olé!"
I don’t care what you say, so don’t even speak
Your girlfriend a freak like Cirque Du Soleil
That’s word to my flag, and my flag red
I’m out of my head, bitch, I’m outta my mind
From the bottom I climb, you ain’t hotter than mine
Nope, not on my time, and I’m not even tryin'
What's poppin', slime? Nothin', five
And if they trippin’, fuck ‘em, five
I ain’t got no time to shuck and jive
These niggas as sweet as pumpkin pie
Cîroc and Sprite on a private flight
Bitch, I been tight since Guiding Light
And my pockets right, and my diamonds white
And my momma's nice, and my daddy’s dead
You faggots scared ‘cause I’m too wild
Been here for a while, I was like "fuck trial"
I puts it down, I’m so Young Money
If you got eyes, look at me now, bitch!

[Chorus: Chris Brown]
Look at me now, look at me now (oh)
I’m gettin' paper
Look at me now (oh) look at me now (yeah)
Fresher than a muh'fucka

[Outro: Chris Brown]
Okay
Okay
Is that right?
I’m fresher than a muh'fucka!

