Title: Juggalo Homies
Artist: Insane Clown Posse

[Violent J]
I know you ain't there
That's why I just want to let you know something bro
You all know I love you
You all know you're my homies
And eh, alright we'll talk later, peace

[Violent J]
Let me ask you this about this life we live
And let me try to swerve some of this attention you give
To them distant ass relatives over in Ham dinner
If they really miss you so much why don't they just call in? (Motherfucker!)
If you wasn't blood, would you still have love?
Or infact does the blood make you think you have to love?
Look I probably love my family more than anybody here
But my homies are family too, third cousins get outta here
Who was you with when you got tatoos?
Who was you tripping with when you did them mushrooms?
Who the fuck threw up all over your car?
And then felt worse than you about that shit in the morning? (Friends ya'll)

[Shaggy 2 Dope]
Who loaned ya money, homie? Who owes ya cash?
Who taught you how to use a bong for the grass?
I don't know much but I gotta assume
When ya hit ya first neden, ya homies was in the other room

[Chorus]
We talkn' about HOMIES HOMIES!!! (Talkn' about the road dogs of mine!)
Our motherfucking HOMIES HOMIES!!! (We throwin' up Clown Love signs!)
Real juggalo HOMIES HOMIES!!! (Talk 'bout the road dogs of mine!)
HOMIES! HOMIES! (Man that's my dog)

[Violent J]
Have you ever had a job that you truly despise?
Like, I dunno, maybe dish washing or fucking flipping fries
Then you've got this boss who thinks he's the Don Mega
Cause he the head manager chief chili fry maker?
All you could vision is ya'll beating him down
Your homies standing on his back while you kicking his head around
But responsibility is there, I can't lie, though
I'd have been plucked his fucking eyeball out with a chicken bone
Crazy as fuck I'll rip your piercings off
And now my homies are holding me back so I don't look soft

[Shaggy 2 Dope]
When you snuck the car out who did you get?
And when you got caught, who you blame that shit?
Who you relax around and scratch yo balls?
Homies,were talking about like you and yours!

(Chorus)

(Bridge (x2))
If ya don't like me you can...fuck off! (Carnival ain't for everyone)

(Jamie Madrox)
Me and my homies stay tight like a noose
And if you step to one of us you betta step to the whole crew
I never knew that I could depend
That I could have some friends that's down til the very end
Well that's my home boys, excuse me, my family
And when we conquer the world
We macking on the galaxy cause the skys the limit
And we ain't finished
And if my homies gonna ride ya know I'm with it

(Monoxide Child)
Puff it and pass it and I give it to my homies ya'll
Hit it and quit it and then I give it to my homies ya'll
I got the world around my finger with my homies ya'll
And everything is obsolete unless I hear my homies call
We worldwide, were homies across the planet
Sticking together like zippers on Michael Jackson's 'Beat It' jacket
They got my back like a tat for that, I love ya'll
Hanging till we old and grey like grandpa (Psychopathic)

(Chorus)

(Bridge)

(Chorus)

(Bridge to fade)

ICP and Twiztid giving props

