Title: 38 Baby
Artist: YoungBoy Never Broke Again

[Intro]
I don't give a fuck who out here doing this shit mane, yeah. You know, nigga know what the fuck this is mane, NBA gang, ya heard me? I go by Young Boy, I'm the hottest younging, ya heard me? Fuck what a nigga talking bout believe that

[Verse 1]
Everybody under disguise man they scheming
These hoes will set you up
Tell you they love you they don't mean it
Full of syrup, bitch I'm leaning
Smoking dope with the demon
Send my younging at your little nigga give me a reason
I heard a nigga say they turned me up, get off a nigga dick
Don't like the fact that now I'm blowing up, nigga get on your shit
I got turned on next Montana ain't nobody give me shit
Bitch I bought my own car, started my own dealership
Cruising down Florida with my burner leaning faded
To tell the truth, I don't know why these niggas hating
I stay with the 38, I won't let nobody take me
& I know these niggas plotting, so I don't smile up in they faces

[Chorus]
No I ain't crazy, so bitch don't try to play me
I'm a 38 baby, go against me I'm a slam them
Out the north, know not to spare them
Go with his move, bitch I dare them
Go with his move, bitch I dare them

[Bridge]
And I don't go nowhere without that iron on me
This shit so cut throat my own niggas talking down on me
These niggas envy for no reason, I ain't got time for them
I'm out that gang and what I rep bitch I stand on it
And I don't go nowhere without that iron on me
This shit so cut throat my own niggas talking down on me
These niggas envy for no reason, I ain't got time for them
I'm out that gang and what I rep bitch I stand on it

[Verse 2]
For so long I've been slept on, got to make them believe me
Just bought a Glock-up out the north, so that's them shots off the 3's
Got the law up on my ass, demons up in my dreams
Andy Gaulden was my uncle, robbing shit in my genes
Nigga I'll prove it while you assuming
I'm up in Houston
Brand new rod for my younging for whoever wanna do me
With this beef shit, I don't stop like Q-Red bitch I'm producing
3Three let me hold the Glock, I'm just waiting for to use it, pussy

[Outro]
I'm strapped in the booth right now. But that's how the game go, they gon' talk. You know I don't do nothing but turn up, they gon' hate. Bitch ass nigga get your money up gang. You heard me? NBA, never broke again. Yeah, 2016 shit nigga, NBA Live. Bitch I stand on the gang. Ay, ay Youngboy

