Title: Freaky Friday
Artist: Lil Dicky

[Intro: Chris Brown]
Lil Dicky, ooh
Mustard on the beat, ho

[Verse 1: Chris Brown]
I woke up Chris Breezy, oh my god I'm the man (oh shit)
I’m so fly and I can dance (whoa, whoa shit)
There’s tattoos on my neck (oh, oh)
I just FaceTimed Kanye (blip, blip)
I told him I’m his biggest fan, yeah (yeah)
Got all these hoes in my DM (yeah, I do)
Holy shit, I got a kid (oh)
Ohh, I can sing so well
Wonder if I can say the n-word (wait for real?)
Wait, can I really say the n-word?
What up, my nigga? (woo) What up, my nigga?
Big ups, my nigga, we up, my nigga
You pussy ass nigga, man, fuck y’all niggas
'Cause I’m that nigga, nigga, nigga, nigga
I’m that nigga

[Chorus: Chris Brown]
I woke up in Chris Brown’s body (oh yeah)
Somehow this shit turned into Freaky Friday
But we got no choice but to turn this bitch sideways
(Oh yeah, oh yeah)
I can’t believe that it's Freaky Friday
Yeah, it’s Freaky Friday
I’m in Chris Brown's body
I drive his Ferrari and I’m light-skinned black

[Verse 2: Lil Dicky]
(Ring ring) What the fuck?
I woke up and I'm Lil Dicky (Lil Dicky?)
Ugh, what the fuck?
This shit is real weak
How his dick staying perched up on his balls like that?
Walking down the street and ain’t nobody know my name (whoa)
Ain’t no paparazzi flashing pictures, this is great (whoa)
Ain’t nobody judging 'cause I’m black or my controversial past
I’ma go and see a movie and relax (woo)
Ayy, I’m a Blood but I can finally wear blue (cool)
Why his momma calling all the time?
Leave me the fuck alone, bitch
Wait, if I’m in Dicky’s body, Breezy is who?
Hope my daughter’s in school
Fuck, if I was Chris Brown, where would I be?
What would I do?

[Chorus: Chris Brown]
I woke up in Chris Brown’s body (oh yeah)
Somehow this shit turned into Freaky Friday
But we got no choice but to turn this bitch sideways
(Oh yeah, oh yeah)
I can’t believe that it’s Freaky Friday
Yeah, it’s Freaky Friday
I’m in Chris Brown's body
I look at my soft dick with delight, it’s my dream dick

[Verse 3: Lil Dicky & Chris Brown]
If I was Lil Dicky in my body, where would I be?
I’m tryna to find myself like an introspective monk
I’m balling on the court, oh my god I can dunk
Snap a flick of my junk
My dick is trending on Twitter? Fuck
Now I’m at the club, I talked my way into getting in
I look up in the VIP, my goodness there I am
I signal to him to let me in but he won’t let me in
I don’t know who that is
Wait, who the fuck he think he is?
Took a glass bottle, shatter it on the bouncer's head (woo)
Walked up to that motherfucker
Wait, think it through for a sec
If you hurting me then you only hurting yourself
But wait, I love myself
That was the key, now we're switching back

[Chorus: Chris Brown]
I woke up in Chris Brown’s body (oh yeah)
Somehow this shit turned into Freaky Friday
But we got no choice but to turn this bitch sideways
(I can't believe)
I can’t believe that it’s Freaky Friday

[Outro]
Lil Dicky: Wait, what the fuck?
Ed Sheeran: And now I'm in Ed Sheeran’s body
It’s way less cool than being Chris Brown was
Lil Dicky: What the fuck again?
DJ Khaled: I’m DJ Khaled
Why am I yelling?
Kendall Jenner: Huh, I'm Kendall Jenner
I got a vagina, I’m gonna explore that right now (woo, woo)
Holy shit, I got a vagina (uh), I'm gonna learn
I’m gonna understand the inner workings of a woman

