Title: BabyWipe
Artist: Ski Mask the Slump God


[Intro]
Ayy! CashMoneyAP
Yuh, yuh, yuh, who?
Bitch, ayy! Sauce
Flex wet in the flesh, ayy!

[Chorus]
How is you feelin', vro? Uh
Feelin' like the Four, I feel Fantastic
Which one would you be though? Uh
Mr. Fantastic 'cause my money like elastic
Burberry trench raincoat
You smoke oregano, I'm smoking on the cat piss
I'ma be real ya' know, when I whip my dick out
She said, "Too big, gotta map this"
How is you feelin', vro? Uh
Feelin' like the Four, I feel Fantastic
Which one would you be though? Uh
Mr. Fantastic 'cause my money like elastic
Burberry trench raincoat
You smoke oregano, I'm smoking on that cat piss
I'ma be real ya' know, when I whip my dick out
She said, "Too big, gotta map this"

[Verse 1]
Ayy, water that pussy like baptist
To find my sauce, need a atlas
Her pussy hungry and starving
So my dick is what I use it as the damn catnip
Rap game on faster than fast so
Be real, all these niggas I might overlap them
Never mind, I just might cap them
Just like a taser, I zap them
Shock, mm I fuck a bitch in the dark, mm
My diamonds shine in the dark, mm
Weed deadass smell like a fart, mm
I'ma go just like a cart, hmm
You police, I'll call you Paul, uh, Blart, uh
Try but you never can fuck my thot
Or milly rock on my block
Okay, Post Malone with that pistol
I see you is the issue
I know that you hard as tissues (Hard)
See you giggle like tickle
Your bitch seeking me like missile (Yup, yup, yup)
Heat sensor on my pickle
You know that I tell no fiddles (Hee!)
But I rhyme right like a riddle

[Chorus]
How is you feeling vro? (Stabby!)
Feeling like the Four, I feel Fantastic (-Tastic!)
Which one would you be though? (Which one?)
Mr. Fantastic 'cause my money like elastic (-Lastic!)
Burberry trench raincoat (Burr! Burr!)
You smoke oregano, I'm smoking on the cat piss (Cat piss!)
I'ma be real ya' know, when I whip my dick out
She said "too big, gotta map this" (Hooooo!)

[Verse 2]
Map, map, map (Map)
You the type to have eyebrow cat scratch (Scratch, scratch)
And I'm in the field like baseball bat
And I'm fresh off a lick like an old Tic-Tac
You done fucked up like you take a step back
Cool cat like a stray in a freezer in the back
Like you're Jay-Z, no Roc-A-Fella holla back
But I'm 'bout the damn money boomerang back
Okay like lisp, is how I speak 'cause I sip
Lean like what's done on your bitch
In your mouth, I fit a fist
Pistol best friends with my hip
Like T.I., bitch as a tip
I don't get head, I get lip
The sauce is water I dripped
The sauce is water I, ayy

[Chorus]
How is you feelin' vro? (How is you?)90
Feelin' like the Four, bitch I feel Fantastic (Feelin' like a, feelin' like a)
Which one would you be though? (Which?)
Mr. Fantastic 'cause my money like elastic
Burberry trench raincoat
You smoke oregano, I'm smoking on the cat piss (Hahaha)
I'ma be real ya' know, when I whip my dick out (Yeah)
She said, "Too big, gotta map this" (Flex, wet)
How is you feeling vro? (How is you?)
Feeling like the Four, bitch I feel Fantastic (Bitch)
Which one would you be though? (Where's the champagne?)
Mr. Fantastic 'cause my money like elastic (Pop it)
Burberry trench raincoat
You smoke oregano, I'm smoking on that cat piss
(You will, regret! You will, regret!)
I'ma be real ya' know, when I whip my dick out
She said, "Too big, gotta map this"

[Outro]
I think I'm done (Map this, map this)
I think I'm done (Map this)
I don't think I gotta say anything actually
Ayy ayy, ayy

