Title: COOLEST MONKEY IN THE JUNGLE
Artist: Ski Mask the Slump God

[Intro: Ski Mask the Slump God & Kodak Black]
Yuh!
Okay!
I was just in the desert for some fuckin' days
Almost lost my motherfuckin' life
I ain't really finna tell y'all how to get away with murder and shit
Yuh!

[Verse 1: Ski Mask the Slump God]
In my life I fucked a couple witches, think I'm a wizard
Hot as desert critters, or cookin' gizzard
Lick her like a lizard, that how I litter
'Cause she got them itty bitty titties, just like the comittee
That bitch kitty be kiddin' me, tryna belittle me
Know that she feelin' me, giggity-giggity!
It be no biggity, diamonds move fidgetty
Smoke me a ciggity, fuck all your bitches, b

[Chorus: Ski Mask the Slump God]
I'm the coolest monkey in the jungle (I'm the coolest monkey in the-)
I'm the coolest monkey in the jungle (I'm the coolest monkey in the-)
Sauce that you had, you been fumbled (Sauce, sauce)
And tell the white supremacist to lick my big toe (Water!)
I'm the coolest monkey in the jungle (Wet!)
I'm the coolest monkey in the jungle (I'm the coolest monkey in the-)
Sauce that you had, you been fumbled (Oh!)
And tell the white supremacist to lick my big toe (Deep throat!)

[Verse 2: SahBabii]
I used to live in the jungle, yeah
I got my thumb in her butthole
All of these bitches is hungry (Hungry)
You can't get full, you too hungry (Hungry)
Try to eat me, bitch, you dumb, dumb (Dumb)
Big Glock with the drum, drum
Off top goin' dumb dumb
Big Glock, pop, pop, pop
I'm with the Slump
Sawed off shotgun, call it Lil Pump
We live in the swamp (Swamp)
Size 10 Timbos, don't get stomped (Yeah)
These bitches be killin' me, swear they be feelin' me
Hop on another D, giggity, giggity
I wanna feel on her tiggity-biggities
Bitch, we some apes and these niggas is centipedes (Ayy)
Fire lil' monkey with the dread (Ayy)
Baby, go bust your head with a brick like Craig
To the white meat, nigga, I ain't talkin' red
Bitch, we ain't scared
Come down to weaponry, bitch, I got expertise
Bitch, I am kerosene, save up my specialty
Fully auto bullets, not movin' separately
I send them killers to come at you presently (Yeah)

[Chorus: Ski Mask the Slump God]
I'm the coolest monkey in the jungle (I'm the coolest monkey in the-)
I'm the coolest monkey in the jungle (I'm the coolest monkey in the-)
Sauce that you had, you been fumbled (Sauce, sauce)
And tell the white supremacist to lick my big toe (Water!)
I'm the coolest monkey in the jungle (Wet!)
I'm the coolest monkey in the jungle (I'm the coolest monkey in the-)
Sauce that you had, you been fumbled (Ooh!)
And tell the white supremacist to lick my big toe

[Verse 3: Ski Mask the Slump God]
Um, okay, like your bitch gon' kiss me like there is a mistletoe
Fly like a fairy like my name Juandissimo
Not necessary to call paramedics
My jewelry been sick with a cold since a year ago
Spin on my nuts, 6-1-9 like Mysterio
She said my nuts taste like honey, no Cheerio
It be no biggie, though, fuck European ho
How does she greet you, though? She be like, "Cheerio!"
Water!
It's how the fabric be when you look at this material
Head your bitch gave me, I would describe it as remedial
Just got up thinkin' 'bout aliens then ate some cereal
Ooh, what'd you do next?
Fuck on your auntie, then put my thumb right on her hairy hole
Will never stop until my voice is on every stereo
Diamonds that's on me look nice against this nice material

