The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Stutterer, by R.R. Merliss

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Stutterer

Author: R.R. Merliss

Illustrator: Riley

Release Date: September 5, 2007 [EBook #22512]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STUTTERER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









THE STUTTERER

BY R. R. MERLISS


 _A man can be killed by a toy gun--he can
 die of fright, for heart attacks can kill.
 What, then, is the deadly thing that must
 be sealed away, forever locked in buried
 concrete--a thing or an idea?_


Illustrated by Riley


[Illustration]

Out of the twenty only one managed to escape the planet. And he did it
very simply, merely by walking up to the crowded ticket window at one of
the rocket ports and buying passage to Earth. His Army identification
papers passed the harassed inspection of the agent, and he gratefully
and silently pocketed the small plastic stub that was handed him in
exchange for his money.

He picked his way with infinite care through the hordes of ex-soldiers
clamoring for passage back to the multitudinous planets from which they
had come. Then he slowly climbed the heavy ramp into the waiting rocket.

He saw with relief that the seats were strongly constructed, built to
survive the pressure of many gravities and he chose one as far removed
as possible from the other passengers.

He was still very apprehensive, and, as he waited for the rocket to take
off, he tried hard to remember the principles of the pulse drive that
powered the ship, and whether his additional weight would upset its
efficiency enough to awaken suspicion.

The seats filled quickly with excited hurrying passengers. Soon he heard
the great door clang shut, and saw the red light flicker on, warning of
the take-off. He felt a slow surge of pressure as the ship arose from
the ground, and his chair creaked ominously with the extra weight. He
became fearful that it might collapse, and he strained forward trying to
shift some of the pressure through his feet to the floor. He sat that
way, tense and immobile, for what seemed a long time until abruptly the
strain was relieved and he heard the rising and falling whine of the
rockets that told him the ship was in pulse drive, flickering back and
forth across the speed of light.

He realized that the pilots had not discovered his extra weight, and
that the initial hazards were over. The important thing was to look like
a passenger, a returning soldier like the others, so that no one would
notice him and remember his presence.

His fellow travelers were by this time chatting with one another, some
playing cards, and others watching the teledepth screens. These were the
adventurers who had flocked from all corners of the galaxy to fight in
the first national war in centuries. They were the uncivilized few who
had read about battle and armed struggle in their history books and
found the old stories exciting.

They paid no attention to their silent companion who sat quietly looking
through the quartz windows at the diamond-bright stars, tacked against
the blackness of infinity.

The fugitive scarcely moved the entire time of the passage. Finally when
Earth hung out in the sky like a blue balloon, the ship cut its
pulsations and swung around for a tail landing.

The atmosphere screamed through the fins of the rocket, and the
continents and the countries, and then the rivers and the mountains took
shape. The big ship settled down as gently as a snowflake, shuddered a
few times and was quiet.

       *       *       *       *       *

The passengers hurriedly gathered up their scattered belongings and
pushed toward the exit in a great rush to be out and back on Earth.

The fugitive was the last to leave. He stayed well away from the others,
being fearful that, if he should touch or brush up against someone, his
identity might be recognized.

When he saw the ramp running from the ship to the ground, he was
dismayed. It seemed a flimsy structure, supported only by tubular steel.
Five people were walking down it, and he made a mental calculation of
their weight--about eight hundred pounds he thought. He weighed five
times that. The ramp was obviously never built to support such a load.

He hesitated, and then he realized that he had caught the eye of the
stewardess waiting on the ground. A little panicky, he stepped out with
one foot and he was horrified to feel the steel buckle. He drew back
hastily and threw a quick glance at the stewardess. Fortunately at the
moment she was looking down one field and waving at someone.

The ramp floor was supported by steel tubes at its edges and in its
exact center. He tentatively put one foot in the middle over the support
and gradually shifted his weight to it. The metal complained creakily,
but held, and he slowly trod the exact center line to Earth. The
stewardess' back was turned toward him as he walked off across the field
toward the customhouse.

He found it comforting to have under his feet what felt like at least
one yard of cement. He could step briskly and not be fearful of
betraying himself.

There was one further danger: the customs inspector.

He took his place at the end of the line and waited patiently until it
led him up to a desk at which a uniformed man sat, busily checking and
stamping declarations and traveling papers. The official, however, did
not even look up when he handed him his passport and identification.

"Human. You don't have to go through immigration," the agent said. "Do
you have anything to declare?"

"N-no," the traveler said. "I d-didn't bring anything in."

"Sign the affidavit," the agent said and pushed a sheet of paper toward
him.

The traveler picked up a pen from the desk and signed "Jon Hall" in a
clear, perfect script.

The agent gave it a passing glance and tossed it into a wire basket.

Then he pushed his uniform cap back exposing a bald head. "You're my
last customer for a while, until the rocket from Sirius comes in. Guess
I might as well relax for a minute." He reached into a drawer of the
desk and pulled out a package of cigarettes, of which he lit one.

"You been in the war, too?" he asked.

Hall nodded. He did not want to talk any more than he had to.

The agent studied his face.

"That's funny," he said after a minute. "I never would have picked you
for one of these so-called adventurers. You're too quiet and peaceful
looking. I would have put you down as a doctor or maybe a writer."

"N-no," Hall said. "I w-was in the war."

"Well, that shows you can't tell by looking at a fellow," the agent said
philosophically. He handed Hall his papers. "There you are. The left
door leads out to the copter field. Good luck on Earth!"

Hall pocketed the stamped documents. "Thanks," he said. "I'm glad to be
here."

He walked down the wide station room to a far exit and pushed the door
open. A few steps farther and he was standing on a cement path dug into
a hillside.

       *       *       *       *       *

Across the valley, bright in the noon sun lay the pine covered slopes of
the Argus mountains, and at his feet the green Mojave flowering with
orchards stretched far to the north and south. Between the trees, in the
center of the valley, the Sacramento River rolled southward in a
man-made bed of concrete and steel giving water and life to what had a
century before been dry dead earth.

There was a small outcropping of limestone near the cement walk, and he
stepped over to it and sat down. He would have been happy to rest and
enjoy for a few moments his escape and his triumph, but he had to let
the others know so that they might have hope.

He closed his eyes and groped across the stars toward Grismet. Almost
immediately he felt an impatient tug at his mind, strong because there
were many clamoring at once to be heard. He counted them. There were
seventeen. So one more had been captured since he had left Grismet.

"Be quiet," the told them. "I'll let you see, after a while. First I
have to reach the two of us that are still free."

Obediently, the seventeen were still, and he groped some more and found
another of his kind deep in an ice cave in the polar regions of Grismet.

"How goes it?" he asked.

The figure on Grismet lay stretched out at full length on the blue ice,
his eyes closed. He answered without moving: "They discovered my
radiation about an hour ago. Pretty soon, they'll start blasting through
the ice."

The one on Earth felt the chill despair of his comrade and let go. He
groped about again until he found the last one, the only other one left.
He was squatting in the cellar of a warehouse in the main city of
Grismet.

"Have they picked up your trail yet?" he asked.

"No," answered the one in the cellar. "They won't for a while. I've
scattered depots of radiation all through the town. They'll be some time
tracking them all down, before they can get to me."

In a flash of his mind, Hall revealed his escape and the one on Grismet
nodded and said: "Be careful. Be very careful. You are our only hope."

Hall returned then to the seventeen, and he said with his thoughts: "All
right, now you can look." Immobile in their darkness, they snatched at
his mind, and as he opened his eyes, they, too, saw the splendors of the
mountains and the valley, the blue sky, and the gold sun high overhead.

       *       *       *       *       *

The new man was young, only twenty-six. He was lean and dark and very
enthusiastic about his work. He sat straight in his chair waiting
attentively while his superior across the desk leafed through a folder.

"Jordan. Tom Jordan," the older man finally said. "A nice old Earth
name. I suppose your folks came from there."

"Yes, sir," the new man said briskly.

The chief closed the folder.

"Well," he said, "your first job is a pretty important one."

"I realize that, sir," Jordan said. "I know it's a great responsibility
for a man just starting with the Commission, but I'll give it every
thing I have."

The chief leaned back in his seat and scratched his chin thoughtfully.

"Normally we start a beginner like you working in a pair with an older
man. But we just haven't got enough men to go around. There are eight
thousand planets there"--he pointed with his thumb over his shoulder to
a wall-sized map of the galaxy--"and we've got to cover every one. It
seems reasonable that if he escaped this planet, he'll go to another
that will by its atmosphere or its temperature give him some natural
advantage over us--some place that is either burning hot or at absolute
zero, or perhaps with a chlorine or sulfur dioxide atmosphere. That's
why"--he hesitated a minute, but continued because he was a truthful
man--"I picked you for Earth. It's the most populated of all the planets
and it seems the least likely one that he would choose."

Jordan's face dropped a little bit when he heard the last piece of
information, but he said: "I understand, sir, and if he's there, I'll
bring him back."

The chief slouched farther back in his seat. He picked up a shard of
rubidium that served as a paper weight and toyed with it.

"I guess you know most of the facts. They are made out of permallium.
Have you ever seen any of the stuff?"

The new man shook his head. "I read about it though--some new alloy,
isn't it?"

"Plenty new. It's the hardest stuff anybody has ever made. If you set
off one hundred successive atom blasts over a lump of permallium, you
might crystallize and scale maybe a micron off the surface. It will
stand any temperature or pressure we can produce. That just means
there's no way to destroy it."

Jordan nodded. He felt a little honored that the chief was giving him
this explanation in person rather than just turning him over to one of
the scientific personnel for a briefing. He did not understand that the
old man was troubled and was talking the situation through as much for
his own sake as for anyone else's.

       *       *       *       *       *

"That's the problem," the chief continued. "Essentially an
indestructible machine with a built-in source of power that one can't
reach. It had to be built that way--a war instrument, you know."

He stopped and looked squarely at the bright young man sitting across
the desk. "This lousy war. You'd think the human race would grow up some
time, wouldn't you?" He filled a pipe with imported Earth tobacco and
lit it, and took a few deep puffs. "There's something else. I don't know
how they do it, but they can communicate with one another over long
distances. That made them very useful for military purposes.

"They are loyal to one another, too. They try to protect each other and
keep one another from being captured. Do you find that surprising?"

The question caught Jordan unprepared. "Well, yes. It is, kind of--" he
said. "They are only machines."

The chief closed his eyes for a moment. He seemed tired.

"Yes," he repeated, "they are only machines. Anyway, we don't know
everything about them, even yet. There are still a few secret angles, I
think. The men who could tell us are either dead or in hiding.

"There's one fact though that gives us a great advantage. Their
brain"--he stopped on the word and considered it--"I mean their thinking
apparatus gives off a very penetrating short-wave length radiation which
you can pick up on your meters anywhere in a radius of two thousand
miles, and you can locate the source accurately if you get within fifty
miles.

"The only real problem you'll have in finding them is the confusion
created by illegal atomic piles. You'd be surprised how many of them we
have turned up recently. They are owned by private parties and are run
illegally to keep from paying the tax on sources of power. You have to
track those down, but once you get them labeled it will be clear
sailing."

He stopped to take a few puffs on his pipe.

"Don't try to be a hero," he said after a few moments. "Don't get close
to the thing you are hunting. None of them yet has injured any of us,
but if one should want to, he could crush you to death with two
fingers. Use the permallium nets and net bombs if you locate him."

He tamped his pipe out. "Well, that's it," he said.

The new man arose. "I want you to know that I appreciate the trust you
have put in me."

"Sure, sure," the chief said, but it was not unfriendly. "Do you like
the job?"

"It is a great opportunity," Jordan said, and he meant it.

"What do you think about what we do to them after we capture them?"

The new man shrugged. "I suppose it's the only thing to do. It's not as
though they were human."

"Yeah," the chief said. "I guess so. Anyway, good luck."

Jordan arose and shook the chief's hand. However, just as he was
stepping through the door, his superior asked him another question. "Did
you know that one of them stutters?"

He turned back, puzzled. "Stutters? Why should he stutter? How could
that be?"

The chief shook his head and started cleaning out his pipe.

"I don't know for sure. You'd better get started." He sat back in his
seat and watched the back of the new man as he disappeared through the
doorway.

That young fellow has a lot to learn, he thought to himself. But even
so, maybe he's better off than I am. Maybe I've had too much experience.
Maybe too much experience puts you back where you started from. You've
done the wrong thing so many times and profited so many times from your
mistakes that you see errors and tragedies in everything.

He was depressed, and he did something that usually made him feel better
again. He reached under the edge of his desk and pulled a little switch
that made the galactic map on the wall light up in three-dimensional
depth, then he swung around in his chair so he could see it. Eight
thousand planets that his race had conquered, eight thousand planets
hundreds of light-years apart. Looking at the map gave him a sense of
accomplishment and pride in humanity which even a stupid war and its
aftermath could not completely destroy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jon Hall, the fugitive, walked along the highway leading south from the
rocket port. There was very little traffic, only an occasional delivery
truck carrying meat or groceries. The real highway was half a mile
overhead where the copters shuttled back and forth up and down the state
in neat orderly layers.

The seventeen were inside his head, looking through his eyes, and
feasting on the blueness of the sky, and the rich green vegetation that
covered the fertile fields. From time to time they talked to him, giving
advice, asking questions, or making comments, but mostly they looked,
each knowing that the hours of their sight might be very few.

After walking a while, Hall became aware of someone's footsteps behind
him. He stopped suddenly in apprehension and swung around. A dozen or so
paces away was a red-headed boy of about ten or eleven, dressed in
plastic overalls, and carrying a basket of ripe raspberries. The stains
about his mouth showed that not all the raspberries were carried in the
basket.

Hall's anxiety faded, and he was glad to see the child. He had hoped to
meet someone who was not so old that they would become suspicious, but
old enough that they might give him directions.

He waited for the lad to catch up.

"Hello," the boy said. "I've been walking behind you most of a mile, but
I guess you didn't hear me."

"It looks as though you've been p-p-picking raspberries," Hall said.

"Yup. My dad owns a patch by the river. Want some?" He proffered the
basket.

"No, thank you," Hall answered. He resumed his walk up the highway with
the boy at his side.

"D-do you live around here," he asked.

"Just up the road a ways." The lad studied his companion for a minute.
"You stutter, don't you?"

"A little."

"There was a boy in my class who used to stutter. The teacher said it
was because he thought so far ahead of what he said he got all tangled
up." The boy reached in his basket for a handful of berries and chewed
them thoughtfully. "She was always after him to talk slower, but I guess
it didn't do any good. He still stutters."

"Is there a p-power plant around here?" Hall asked. "You know, where the
electricity comes from."

"You mean the place where they have the nu-nuclear fission"--the boy
stumbled on the unfamiliar word, but got it out--"and they don't let you
in because you get poisoned or something?"

"Yes, I think that's it."

"There are two places. There's one over at Red Mountain and another over
at Ballarat."

"Where are they?"

"Well--" The boy stopped to think. "Red Mountain's straight ahead, maybe
ten miles, and Ballarat's over there"--he pointed west across the orange
groves--"maybe fifteen miles."

"Good," Hall said. "Good." And he felt glad inside of himself. Maybe it
could be done, he thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

They walked along together. Hall sometimes listening to the chattering
of the boy beside him, sometimes listening to and answering the distant
voices of the seventeen. Abruptly, a few hundred yards before the house
that the boy had pointed out as his father's, a small sports car whipped
down the highway, coming on them almost without warning. The lad jumped
sideways, and Hall, to avoid touching him, stepped off the concrete
road. His leg sank into the earth up to the mid-calf. He pulled it out
as quickly as he could.

The boy was looking at the fast retreating rear of the sports car.

"Gee," he said. "I sure didn't see them coming." Then he caught sight of
the deep hole alongside the road, and he stared at it. "Gosh, you sure
made a footprint there," he said wonderingly.

"The ground was soft," Hall said. "C-come along."

But instead of following, the boy walked over to the edge of the road
and stared into the hole. He tentatively stamped on the earth around it.
"This ground isn't soft," he said. "It's hard as a rock." He turned and
looked at Hall with big eyes.

Hall came close to the boy and took hold of his jacket. "D-don't pay any
attention to it, son. I just stepped into a soft spot."

The boy tried to pull away. "I know who you are," he said. "I heard
about you on the teledepth."

Suddenly, in the way of children, panic engulfed him and he flung his
basket away and threw himself back and forth, trying to tear free. "Let
me go," he screamed. "Let me go. Let me go."

"Just l-listen to me, son," Hall pleaded. "Just listen to me. I won't
hurt you."

But the boy was beyond reasoning. Terror stricken, he screamed at the
top of his voice, using all his little strength to escape.

"If you p-promise to l-listen to me, I'll let you go," Hall said.

"I promise," the boy sobbed, still struggling.

But the moment Hall let go of his coat, he tore away and ran as fast as
he could over the adjacent field.

"W-wait--don't run away," Hall shouted. "I won't hurt you. Stay where
you are. I couldn't follow you anyway. I'd sink to my hips."

The logic of the last sentence appealed to the frightened lad. He
hesitated and then stopped and turned around, a hundred feet or so from
the highway.

"L-listen," said Hall earnestly. "The teledepths are wr-wrong. They
d-didn't tell you the t-truth about us. I d-don't want to hurt anyone.
All I n-need is a few hours. D-don't tell anyone for j-just a few hours
and it'll be all right." He paused because he didn't know what to say
next.

The boy, now that he seemed secure from danger had recovered his wits.
He plucked a blade of grass from the ground and chewed on an end of it,
looking for all the world like a grownup farmer thoughtfully considering
his fields. "Well, I guess you could have hurt me plenty, but you
didn't," he said. "That's something."

"Just a few hours," Hall said. "It won't take long. Y-you can tell your
father tonight."

The boy suddenly remembered his raspberries when he saw his basket and
its spilled contents on the highway.

"Why don't you go along a bit," he said. "I would like to pick up those
berries I dropped."

"Remember," Hall said, "just a few hours." He turned and started
walking again toward Red Mountain. Inside his mind, the seventeen asked
anxiously, "Do you think he'll give the alarm? Will he report your
presence?"

[Illustration]

Back on the highway, the boy was gathering the berries back into his
basket while he tried to make his mind up.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jordan reached Earth atmosphere about two o'clock in the afternoon. He
immediately reported in to the Terrestrial police force, and via the
teledepth screen spoke with a bored lieutenant. The lieutenant, after
listening to Jordan's account of his mission, assured him without any
particular enthusiasm of the willingness of the Terrestrial forces to
coöperate, and of more value, gave him the location of all licensed
sources of radiation in the western hemisphere.

The galactic agent set eagerly to work, and in the next several hours
uncovered two unlisted radiation sources, both of which he promptly
investigated. In one case, north of Eugene, he found in the backyard of
a metal die company a small atomic pile. The owner was using it as an
illegal generator of electricity, and when he saw Jordan snooping about
with his detection instruments, he immediately offered the agent a
sizable bribe. It was a grave mistake since Jordan filed charges against
him, via teledepth, not only for evading taxes, but also for attempted
bribery.

The second strike seemed more hopeful. He picked up strong radiation in
a rather barren area of Montana; however when he landed, he found that
it was arising from the earth itself. From a short conversation with the
local authorities, he learned that the phenomenon was well known: an
atomic fission plant had been destroyed at that site during the Third
World War.

He was flying over the lovely blue water of Lake Bonneville, when his
teledepth screen flickered. He flipped the switch on and the
lieutenant's picture flooded in.

"I have a call I think you ought to take," the Earth official said. "It
seems as though it might be in your line. It's from a sheriff in a small
town in California. I'll have the operator plug him in."

       *       *       *       *       *

Abruptly the picture switched to that of a stout red-faced man wearing
the brown uniform of a county peace officer.

"You're the galactic man?" the sheriff asked.

"Yes. My name is Tom Jordan," Jordan said.

"Mine's Berkhammer." It must have been warm in California because the
sheriff pulled out a large handkerchief and mopped his brow. When he was
done with that he blew his nose loudly. "Hay fever," he announced.

"Want to see my credentials?"

"Oh sure, sure," the sheriff hastily replied. He scrutinized the card
and badge that Jordan displayed. After a moment, he said, "I don't know
why I'm looking at those. They might be fakes for all I know. Never saw
them before and I'll probably never see them again."

"They're genuine."

"The deuce with formality," the sheriff said heavily. "There's some kid
around here who thinks he saw that ... that machine you're supposed to
be looking for."

"When was that?" Jordan asked.

"About four hours ago. Here, I'll let you talk to him yourself." He
pulled his big bulk to one side, and a boy and his father walked into
the picture. The boy was red-eyed, as though he had been crying. The
father was a tall, stoop-shouldered farmer, dressed like his son in
plastic overalls.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sheriff patted the boy on the back. "Come on, Jimmy. Tell the man
what you saw."

"I saw him," the boy said sullenly. "I walked up the highway with him."

Jordan leaned forward toward the screen.

"How did you know who he was?"

"I knew because when he stepped on the ground, he sank into it up to his
knee. He tried to say the ground was soft, but it was hard. I know it
was hard."

"Why did you wait so long to tell anybody?" Jordan asked softly.

The boy looked at him with defiance and dislike in his eyes and kept his
small mouth clamped shut.

His father nudged him roughly in the ribs.

"Answer the man," he commanded.

Jimmy looked down at his shoes.

"Because he asked me not to tell for a while," he said curtly.

"Stubborn as nails," the father said not without pride in his voice.
"Got more loyalty to a lousy machine than to the whole human race."

"Which way did he go, Jimmy?"

"Toward Red Mountain. I think maybe to the power house. He asked me
where it was."

"What do you think he wants with that?" the sheriff asked of Jordan.

Jordan shrugged and shook his head.

"Maybe it's all in the kid's head," the sheriff suggested. "These wild
teledepth programs they look at give them all kinds of ideas."

"It isn't in my head," Jimmy said violently. "I saw him. He stepped on
the ground and stuck his foot into it. I talked to him. And I know
something else. He stutters."

"What?" said the sheriff. "Now I know you're lying."

The father started dragging the boy by the arm. "Come on home, Jimmy.
You got one more licking coming."

Jordan, however, was sure the boy was not lying. "Leave him alone," he
said. "He's right. He did see him." He took a fast look at the timepiece
on his panel board. "I'll be down in an hour and a half. Wait for me."

He flicked the switch off, and kicked up the motors. The ship shot
southward almost as rapidly as a projectile.

He had topped the Sierras and had just turned into the great central
valley of California when, with the impact of a blow, a frightening
thought occurred to him.

He flicked the screen on again, and he caught the sheriff sitting behind
his desk industriously scratching himself in one armpit.

"Listen," Jordan said, speaking very fast. "You've got to send out a
national alarm. You must get every man you can down to the power plant.
You've got to stop him from getting in."

The sheriff stopped scratching himself and stared at Jordan.

"What are you so het up about, young man?"

"Do it, and do it now," Jordan almost shouted. "He'll tear the pile
apart and let the hafnium go off. It'll blow half the state off the
planet."

The sheriff was unperturbed. "Mr. Star boy," he said sarcastically, "any
grammar school kid knows that if someone came within a hundred yards of
one of those power-house piles, he'd burn like a match stick. And
besides why would he want to blow himself to pieces?"

"He's made out of permallium." Jordan was shouting now.

The sheriff suddenly grew pale. "Get off my screen. I'm calling
Sacramento."

       *       *       *       *       *

Jordan set the ship for maximum speed, well beyond the safety limit. He
kept peering ahead into the dusk, momentarily fearful that the whole
countryside would light up in one brilliant flash. In a few minutes he
was sweating and trembling with the tension.

Over Walnut Grove, he recognized the series of dams, reservoirs and
water-lifts where the Sacramento was raised up out of its bed and turned
south. For greater speed, he came close to Earth, flying at emergency
height, reserved ordinarily for police, firemen, doctors and ambulances.
He set his course by sight following the silver road of the river,
losing it for ten or fifteen miles at a time where it passed through
subterranean tunnels, picking it up again at the surface, always
shooting south as fast as the atmosphere permitted.

At seven thirty, when the sun had finally set, he sighted the lights of
Red Mountain, and he cut his speed and swung in to land. There was no
trouble picking out the power plant; it was a big dome-shaped building
surrounded by a high wall. It was so brilliantly lit up, that it stood
out like a beacon, and there were several hundred men milling about
before it.

He settled down on the lawn inside the walls, and the sheriff came
bustling up, a little more red in the face than usual.

"I've been trying to figure for the last hour what the devil I would do
to stop him if he decided to come here," Berkhammer said.

"He's not here then?"

The sheriff shook his head. "Not a sign of him. We've gone over the
place three times."

Jordan settled back in relief, sitting down in the open doorway of his
ship. "Good," he said wearily.

"Good!" the sheriff exploded. "I don't know whether I'd rather have him
show up or not. If this whole business is nothing more than the crazy
imagination of some kid who ought to get tanned and a star-cop with milk
behind his ears, I'm really in the soup. I've sent out an alarm and I've
got the whole state jumping. There's a full mechanized battalion of
state troops waiting in there." He pointed toward the power plant.
"They've got artillery and tanks all around the place."

Jordan jumped down out of the ship. "Let's see what you've got set up
here. In the meantime, stop fretting. I'd rather see you fired than
vaporized along with fifty million other people."

"I guess you're right there," Berkhammer conceded, "but I don't like to
have anyone make a fool out of me."

       *       *       *       *       *

At Ballarat, an old man, Eddie Yudovich, was the watchman and general
caretaker of the electrical generation plant. Actually, his job was a
completely unnecessary one, since the plant ran itself. In its very
center, buried in a mine of graphite were the tubes of hafnium, from
whose nuclear explosions flowed a river of electricity without the need
of human thought or direction.

He had worked for the company for a long time and when he became
crippled with arthritis, the directors gave him the job so that he might
have security in his latter years.

Yudovich, however, was a proud old man, and he never once acknowledged
to himself or to anyone else that his work was useless. He guarded and
checked the plant as though it were the storehouse of the Terrestrial
Treasury. Every hour punctually, he made his rounds through the
building.

At approximately seven thirty he was making his usual circuit when he
came to the second level. What he discovered justified all the years of
punctilious discharge of his duties. He was startled to see a man
kneeling on the floor, just above where the main power lines ran. He had
torn a hole in the composition floor, and as Yudovich watched, he
reached in and pulled out the great cable. Immediately the intruder
glowed in the semidarkness with an unearthly blue shine and sparkles
crackled off of his face, hands and feet.

Yudovich stood rooted to the floor. He knew very well that no man could
touch that cable and live. But as he watched, the intruder handled it
with impunity, pulling a length of wire out of his pocket and making
some sort of a connection.

It was too much for the old man. Electricity was obviously being stolen.
He roared out at the top of his voice, and stumped over to the wall
where he threw the alarm switch. Immediately, a hundred arc lights
flashed on, lighting the level brighter than the noon sun, and a
tremendously loud siren started wailing its warning to the whole
countryside.

The intruder jumped up as though he had been stabbed. He dropped the
wires, and after a wild look around him, he ran at full speed toward the
far exit.

"Hold on there," Yudovich shouted and tried to give chase, but his
swollen, crooked knees almost collapsed with the effort.

His eyes fell on a large wrench lying on a worktable, and he snatched it
up and threw it with all his strength. In his youth he had been a ball
player with some local fame as a pitcher, and in his later life, he was
addicted to playing horseshoes. His aim was, therefore, good, and the
wrench sailed through the air striking the runner on the back of the
head. Sparks flew and there was a loud metallic clang, the wrench
rebounding high in the air. The man who was struck did not even turn his
head, but continued his panicky flight and was gone in a second.

When he realized there was no hope of effecting a capture, Yudovich
stumped over to see the amount of the damage. A hole had been torn in
the floor, but the cable itself was intact.

Something strange caught his attention. Wherever the intruder had put
his foot down, there were many radiating cracks in the composition
floor, just as though someone had struck a sheet of ice with a sledge
hammer.

"I'll be danged," he said to himself. "I'll be danged and double
danged."

He turned off the alarm and then went downstairs to the teledepth screen
to notify the sheriff's office.

A few hundred yards from the powerhouse, Jon Hall stood in the darkness,
listening to the voices of his fellows. There were eighteen of them, not
seventeen, for a short while before the one in the ice cave had been
captured, and they railed at him with a bitter hopeless anger.

He looked toward the bright lights of the powerhouse, considering
whether he should return. "It's too late," said one of them. "The alarm
is already out." "Go into the town and mix with the people," another
suggested. "If you stay within a half mile of the hafnium pile, the
detection man will not be able to pick up your radiation and maybe you
will have a second chance."

They all assented in that, and Hall, weary of making his own decisions
turned toward the town. He walked through a tree-lined residential
street, the houses with neatly trimmed lawns, and each with a copter
parked on the roof. In almost every house the teledepths were turned on
and he caught snatches of bulletins about himself: "... Is known to be
in the Mojave area." "... About six feet in height and very similar to a
human being. When last seen, he was dressed in--" "Governor Leibowitz
has promised speedy action and attorney general Markle has stated--"

The main street of Ballarat was brilliantly lighted. Many of the
residents, aroused by the alarm from the powerhouse, were out, standing
in small groups in front of the stores and talking excitedly to one
another.

He hesitated, unwilling to walk through the bright street, but uncertain
where to turn. Two men talking loudly came around the corner suddenly
and he stepped back into a store entrance to avoid them. They stopped
directly in front of him. One of them, an overalled farm hand from his
looks, said, "He killed a kid just a little while ago. My brother-in-law
heard it."

"Murderer," the other said viciously.

The farmer turned his head and his glance fell on Hall. "Well, a new
face in town," he said after a moment's inspection. "Say I bet you're a
reporter from one of the papers, aren't you?"

Hall came out of the entrance and tried to walk around the two men, but
the farmer caught him by the sleeve.

"A reporter, huh? Well, I got some news for you. That thing from Grismet
just killed a kid."

Hall could restrain himself no longer.

"That's a lie," he said coldly.

The farmer looked him up and down.

"What do you know about it," he demanded. "My brother-in-law got it from
somebody in the state guard."

"It's still a lie."

"Just because it's not on the teledepth, you say it's a lie," the farmer
said belligerently. "Not everything is told on the teledepth, Mr.
Wiseheimer. They're keeping it a secret. They don't want to scare the
people."

Hall started to walk away, but the farmer blocked his path.

"Who are you anyway? Where do you live? I never saw you before," he said
suspiciously.

"Aw, Randy," his companion said, "don't go suspecting everybody."

"I don't like anyone to call me a liar."

Hall stepped around the man in his path, and turned down the street. He
was boiling inside with an almost uncontrollable fury.

       *       *       *       *       *

A few feet away, catastrophe suddenly broke loose. A faulty section of
the sidewalk split without warning under his feet and he went pitching
forward into the street. He clutched desperately at the trunk of a tall
palm tree, but with a loud snap, it broke, throwing him head on into a
parked road car. The entire front end of the car collapsed like an egg
shell under his weight.

For a long moment, the entire street was dead quiet. With difficulty,
Hall pulled himself to his feet. Pale, astonished faces were staring at
him from all sides.

Suddenly the farmer started screaming. "That's him. I knew it. That's
him." He was jumping up and down with excitement.

Hall turned his back and walked in the other direction. The people in
front of him faded away, leaving a clear path.

He had gone a dozen steps when a man with a huge double-barreled shotgun
popped out from a store front just ahead. He aimed for the middle of
Hall's chest and fired both barrels.

The blast and the shot struck Hall squarely, burning a large hole in his
shirt front. He did not change his pace, but continued step by step.

The man with the gun snatched two shells out of his pocket and
frantically tried to reload. Hall reached out and closed his hand over
the barrel of the gun and the blue steel crumpled like wet paper.

From across the street, someone was shooting at him with a rifle.
Several times a bullet smacked warmly against his head or his back.

He continued walking slowly up the street. At its far end several men
appeared dragging a small howitzer--probably the only piece in the local
armory. They scurried around it, trying to get it aimed and loaded.

"Fools. Stupid fools," Hall shouted at them.

The men could not seem to get the muzzle of the gun down, and when he
was a dozen paces from it they took to their heels. He tore the heavy
cannon off of its carriage and with one blow of his fist caved it in. He
left it lying in the street broken and useless.

Almost as suddenly as it came, his anger left him. He stopped and looked
back at the people cringing in the doorways.

"You poor, cruel fools," Hall said again.

He sat down in the middle of the street on the twisted howitzer barrel
and buried his head in his hands. There was nothing else for him to do.
He knew that in just a matter of seconds, the ships with their
permallium nets and snares would be on him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Since Jordan's ship was not large enough to transport Jon Hall's great
weight back to Grismet, the terrestrial government put at the agent's
disposal a much heavier vessel, one room of which had been hastily lined
with permallium and outfitted as a prison cell. A pilot by the name of
Wilkins went with the ship. He was a battered old veteran, given to
cigar smoking, clandestine drinking and card playing.

The vessel took off, rose straight through the atmosphere for about
forty miles, and then hung, idly circling Earth, awaiting clearance
before launching into the pulse drive. A full course between Earth and
Grismet had to be plotted and cleared by the technicians at the dispatch
center because the mass of the vessel increased so greatly with its
pulsating speed that if any two ships passed within a hundred thousand
miles of each other, they would at least be torn from their course, and
might even be totally destroyed.

Wilkins had proposed a pinochle game, and he and Jordan sat playing in
the control room.

The pilot had been winning and he was elated. "Seventy-six dollars so
far," he announced after some arithmetic. "The easiest day's pay I made
this month."

Jordan shuffled the cards and dealt them out, three at a time. He was
troubled by his own thoughts, and so preoccupied that he scarcely
followed the game.

"Spades, again," the pilot commented gleefully. "Well, ain't that too
bad for you." He gave his cigar a few chomps and played a card.

Jordan had been looking out of the window. The ship had tilted and he
could see without rising the rim of Earth forming a beautiful geometric
arc, hazy and blue in its shimmering atmosphere.

"Come on, play," the pilot said, impatiently. "I just led an ace."

Jordan put down his cards. "I guess I better quit," he said.

"What the devil!" the pilot said angrily. "You can't quit like that in
the middle of a deal. I got a flush and aces."

"I'm sorry," Jordan said, "but I'm going to lie down in my cabin until
we are given clearance."

He opened the door of the little room and went into the hall. He walked
down past his own cabin and stopped in front of another door, a new one
that was sheathed in permallium. He hesitated a few moments; then he
snapped open the outside latch and walked in, letting the door swing
closed behind him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hall lay unmoving in the middle of the floor, his legs and arms fastened
in greaves of permallium.

Jordan was embarrassed. He did not look directly at the robot.

"I don't know whether you want to talk to me or not," he started. "If
you don't want to, that's all right. But, I've followed you since you
landed on Earth, and I don't understand why you did what you did. You
don't have to tell me, but I wish you would. It would make me feel
better."

The robot shrugged--a very human gesture, Jordan noted.

"G-go ahead and ask me," he said. "It d-doesn't make any difference
now."

Jordan sat down on the floor. "The boy was the one who gave you away. If
not for him, no one would have ever known what planet you were on. Why
did you let the kid get away?"

The robot looked straight at the agent. "Would you kill a child?" he
asked.

"No, of course not," Jordan said a little bit annoyed, "but I'm not a
robot either." He waited for a further explanation, but when he saw none
was coming, he said: "I don't know what you were trying to do in that
powerhouse at Ballarat, but, whatever it was, that old man couldn't have
stopped you. What happened?"

"I l-lost my head," the robot said quietly. "The alarm and the lights
rattled me, and I got into a p-panic."

"I see," said Jordan, frustrated, not really seeing at all. He sat back
and thought for a moment. "Let me put it this way. Why do you stutter?"

Hall smiled a wry smile. "Th-that used to be a m-military secret," he
said. "It's our one weakness--the one Achilles heel in a m-machine that
was meant to be invulnerable."

He struggled to a sitting position. "You see, we were m-made as
s-soldiers and had to have a certain loyalty to the country that m-made
us. Only living things are loyal--machines are not. We had to think like
human beings."

Jordan's brows contracted as he tried to understand the robot.

"You mean you have a transplanted human brain?" he asked incredulously.

"In a way," Hall said. "Our b-brains are permallium strips on which the
mind of some human donor was m-magnetically imprinted. My mind was
copied f-from a man who stuttered and who got panicky when the going got
rough, and who couldn't kill a child no matter what was at s-stake."

Jordan felt physically ill. Hall was human and he was immortal. And
according to galactic decree, he, like his fellows, was to be manacled
in permallium and fixed in a great block of cement, and that block was
to be dropped into the deep silent depths of the Grismet ocean, to be
slowly covered by the blue sediment that gradually filters down through
the miles of ocean water to stay immobile and blind for countless
millions of years.

Jordan arose to his feet. He could think of nothing further to say.

He stopped, however, with the door half open, and asked: "One more
question--what did you want with the electrical generator plants on
Earth?"

[Illustration]

Slowly and without emotion Hall told him, and when he understood, he
became even sicker.

       *       *       *       *       *

He went across to his cabin and stood for a while looking out the
window. Then he lit a cigarette and lay down on his bunk thinking. After
a time, he put out the cigarette and walked into the hall where he paced
up and down.

As he passed the cell door for about the tenth time, he suddenly swung
around and lifted the latch and entered. He went over to the robot, and
with a key that he took from his pocket, he unlocked the greaves and
chains.

"There's no point in keeping you bound up like this," he said. "I don't
think you're very dangerous." He put the key back in his pocket.

"I suppose you know that this ship runs on an atomic pile," he said in a
conversational tone of voice. "The cables are just under the floor in
the control room and they can be reached through a little trap door."

Jordan looked directly into Hall's face. The robot was listening with
great intentness.

"Well," the agent said, "we'll probably be leaving Earth's atmosphere in
about fifteen minutes. I think I'll go play pinochle with the pilot."

He carefully left the door of the cell unlatched as he left. He walked
to the control room and found Wilkins, a dry cigar butt clenched between
his teeth, absorbed in a magazine.

"Let's have another game," Jordan said. "I want some of that
seventy-six dollars back."

Wilkins shook his head. "I'm in the middle of a good story here. Real
sexy. I'll play you after we take off."

"Nothing doing," Jordan said sharply. "Let's play right now."

Wilkins kept reading. "We got an eighteen-hour flight in front of us.
You have lots of time."

The agent snatched the magazine out of his hands. "We're going to play
right now in my cabin," he said.

"You quit when I have aces and a flush, and now you come back and want
to play again. That's not sportsmanlike," Wilkins complained, but he
allowed himself to be led back to Jordan's cabin. "I never saw anybody
so upset about losing a miserable seventy-six bucks," was his final
comment.

       *       *       *       *       *

The robot lay perfectly still until he heard the door to Jordan's cabin
slam shut, and then he arose as quietly as he could and stole out into
the hall. The steel of the hall floor groaned, but bore his weight, and
carefully, trembling with excitement inside of his ponderous metallic
body, he made his way to the control room. He knelt and lifted the
little trap door and found the naked power cable, pulsating with
electrical current.

In a locker under the panel board he found a length of copper wire. It
was all he needed for the necessary connection.

Since his capture, his fellows on Grismet had been silent with despair,
but as he knelt to close the circuit, their minds flooded in on him and
he realized with a tremendous horror that there were now nineteen, that
all except he had been bound and fixed in their eternal cement prisons.

"We are going to have our chance," he told them. "We won't have much
time, but we will have our chance."

He closed the circuit and a tremendous tide of electric power flowed
into his head. Inside that two-inch shell of permallium was a small
strip of metal tape on whose electrons and atoms were written the
borrowed mind of a man. Connected to the tape was a minute instrument
for receiving and sending electromagnetic impulses--the chain by which
the mind of one robot was tied to that of another.

The current surged in and the tiny impulses swelled in strength and
poured out through the hull of the ship in a great cone that penetrated
Earth's atmosphere in a quadrant that extended from Baffin land to
Omaha, and from Hawaii to Labrador. The waves swept through skin and
bone and entered the sluggish gelatinous brain of sentient beings,
setting up in those organs the same thoughts and pictures that played
among the electrons of the permallium strip that constituted Jon Hall's
mind.

All nineteen clamored to be heard, for Hall to relay their voices to
Earth, but he held them off and first he told his story.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Casseiopeian delegate to the Galactic Senate was at the moment
finishing his breakfast. He was small and furry, not unlike a very large
squirrel, and he sat perched on a high chair eating salted roast almonds
of which he was very fond.

Suddenly a voice started talking inside of his head, just as it did at
that very second inside the heads of thirteen billion other inhabitants
of the northwest corner of Earth. The Casseiopeian delegate was so
startled that he dropped the dish of almonds, his mouth popping open,
his tiny red tongue inside flickering nervously. He listened spellbound.

The voice told him of the war on Grismet and of the permallium
constructed robots, and of the cement blocks. This, however, he already
knew, because he had been one of the delegates to the Peace Conference
who had decided to dispose of the robots. The voice, however, also told
him things he did not know, such as the inability of the robots to
commit any crime that any other sane human being would not commit, of
their very simple desire to be allowed to live in peace, and most of all
of their utter horror for the fate a civilized galaxy had decreed for
them.

When the voice stopped, the Casseiopeian delegate was a greatly shaken
little being.

       *       *       *       *       *

Back on the ship, Hall opened the circuit to the nineteen, and they
spoke in words, in memory pictures and in sensations.

       *       *       *       *       *

A copter cab driver was hurrying with his fare from Manhattan to Oyster
Bay. Suddenly, in his mind, he became a permallium robot. He was bound
with cables of the heavy metal, and was suspended upside down in a huge
cement block. The stone pressed firmly on his eyes, his ears, and his
chest. He was completely immobile, and worst of all, he knew that above
his head for six miles lay the great Grismet Ocean, with the blue mud
slowly settling down encasing the cement in a stony stratum that would
last till the planet broke apart.

The cab driver gasped: "What the hell." His throat was so dry he could
scarcely talk. He turned around to his fare, and the passenger, a young
man, was pale and trembling.

"You seeing things, too?" the driver asked.

"I sure am," the fare said unsteadily. "What a thing to do."

       *       *       *       *       *

For fifteen minutes, over the northwest quadrant of Earth, the words and
the pictures went out, and thirteen billion people knew suddenly what
lay in the hearts and minds of nineteen robots.

       *       *       *       *       *

A housewife in San Rafael was at the moment in a butcher shop buying
meat for her family. As the thoughts and images started pouring into her
mind, she remained stock-still, her package of meat forgotten on the
counter. The butcher, wiping his bloodied hands on his apron froze in
that position, an expression of horror and incredulity on his face.

When the thoughts stopped coming in, the butcher was the first to come
out of the trancelike state.

"Boy," he said, "that's sure some way of sending messages. Sure beats
the teledepths."

The housewife snatched her meat off the counter. "Is that all you think
of," she demanded angrily.

"That's a terrible thing that those barbarians on Grismet are doing to
those ... those people. Why didn't they tell us that they were human."
She stalked out of the shop, not certain what she would do, but
determined to do something.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the ship Hall reluctantly broke off the connection and replaced the
trap door. Then he went back to his cell and locked himself in. He had
accomplished his mission; its results now lay in the opinions of men.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jordan left the ship immediately on landing, and took a copter over to
the agency building. His conversation with his superior was something he
wanted to get over with as soon as possible.

The young woman at the secretary's desk looked at him coldly and led him
directly into the inner office. The chief was standing up in front of
the map of the galaxy, his hands in his pockets, his eyes an icy blue.

"I've been hearing about you," he said without a greeting.

Jordan sat down. He was tense and jumpy but tried not to show it. "I
suppose you have," he said, adding, after a moment, "Sir."

"How did that robot manage to break out of his cell and get to the power
source on the ship in the first place?"

"He didn't break out," Jordan said slowly. "I let him out."

"I see," the chief said, nodding. "You let him out. I see. No doubt you
had your reasons."

"Yes, I did. Look--" Jordan wanted to explain, but he could not find the
words. It would have been different if the robots' messages had reached
Grismet; he would not have had to justify himself then. But they had
not, and he could not find a way to tell this cold old man of what he
had learned about the robots and their unity with men. "I did it because
it was the only decent thing to do."

"I see," the chief said. "You did it because you have a heart." He
leaned suddenly forward, both hands on his desk. "It's good for a man to
have a heart and be compassionate. He's not worth anything if he isn't.
But"--and he shook his finger at Jordan as he spoke--"that man is going
to be compassionate at his own expense, not at the expense of the
agency. Do you understand that?"

"I certainly do," Jordan answered, "but you have me wrong if you think
I'm here to make excuses or to apologize. Now, if you will get on with
my firing, sir, I'll go home and have my supper."

The chief looked at him for a long minute. "Don't you care about your
position in the agency?" he asked quietly.

"Sure I do," Jordan said almost roughly. "It's the work I wanted to do
all my life. But, as you said, what I did, I did at my own expense.
Look, sir, I don't like this any better than you do. Why don't you fire
me and let me go home? Your prisoner's safely locked up in the ship."

For answer the chief tossed him a stellogram. Jordan glanced at the
first few words and saw that it was from Galactic Headquarters on Earth.
He put it back on the desk without reading it through.

"I know that I must have kicked up a fuss. You don't have to spell it
out for me."

"Read it," the chief said impatiently.

Jordan took back the stellogram and examined it. It read.

  To: Captain Lawrence Macrae Detection Agency, Grismet.

  From: Prantal Aminopterin Delegate from Casseiopeia Chairman, Grismet
    Peace Committee of the Galactic Senate.

  Message: You are hereby notified that the committee by a vote of 17-0
    has decided to rescind its order of January 18, 2214, directing the
    disposal of the permallium robots of Grismet. Instead, the committee
    directs that you remove from their confinement all the robots and
    put them in some safe place where they will be afforded reasonable
    and humane treatment.

  The committee will arrive in Grismet some time during the next month
    to decide on permanent disposition.

Jordan's heart swelled as he read the gram. "It worked," he said. "They
have changed their minds. It won't be so bad being discharged now." He
put the paper back on the desk and arose to go.

The chief smiled and it was like sunlight suddenly flooding over an
arctic glacier. "Discharged? Now who's discharging you? I'd sooner do
without my right arm."

He reached in a desk drawer and pulled out a bottle of old Earth bourbon
and two glasses. He carefully poured out a shot into each glass, and
handed one to Jordan.

"I like a man with a heart, and if you get away with it, why then you
get away with it. And that's just what you've done."

He sat down and started sipping his whisky. Jordan stood uncertainly
above him, his glass in his hand.

"Sit down, son," the old man said. "Sit down and tell me about your
adventures on Earth."

Jordan sat down, put his feet on the desk and took a sizable swallow of
his whisky.

"Well, Larry," he started, "I got into Earth atmosphere about 2:40
o'clock--"


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

This etext was produced from _Astounding Science Fiction_ April 1955.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright
on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and typographical errors
have been corrected without note.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Stutterer, by R.R. Merliss

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE STUTTERER ***

***** This file should be named 22512-8.txt or 22512-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/2/5/1/22512/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
