The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Link, by Alan Edward Nourse

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Link

Author: Alan Edward Nourse

Release Date: October 3, 2007 [EBook #22876]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LINK ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _The Counterfeit Man More Science
    Fiction Stories by Alan E. Nourse_ published in 1963. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on
    this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and typographical
    errors have been corrected without note.




 The
 Link




It was nearly sundown when Ravdin eased the ship down into the last slow
arc toward the Earth's surface. Stretching his arms and legs, he tried
to relax and ease the tension in his tired muscles. Carefully, he
tightened the seat belt for landing; below him he could see the vast,
tangled expanse of Jungle-land spreading out to the horizon. Miles ahead
was the bright circle of the landing field and the sparkling glow of the
city beyond. Ravdin peered to the north of the city, hoping to catch a
glimpse of the concert before his ship was swallowed by the brilliant
landing lights.

A bell chimed softly in his ear. Ravdin forced his attention back to the
landing operation. He was still numb and shaken from the Warp-passage,
his mind still muddled by the abrupt and incredible change. Moments
before, the sky had been a vast, starry blanket of black velvet; then,
abruptly, he had been hovering over the city, sliding down toward warm
friendly lights and music. He checked the proper switches, and felt the
throbbing purr of the anti-grav motors as the ship slid in toward the
landing slot. Tall spires of other ships rose to meet him, circle upon
circle of silver needles pointing skyward. A little later they were
blotted out as the ship was grappled into the berth from which it had
risen days before.

With a sigh, Ravdin eased himself out of the seat, his heart pounding
with excitement. Perhaps, he thought, he was too excited, too eager to
be home, for his mind was still reeling from the fearful discovery of
his journey.

The station was completely empty as Ravdin walked down the ramp to the
shuttles. At the desk he checked in with the shiny punch-card robot, and
walked swiftly across the polished floor. The wall panels pulsed a
somber blue-green, broken sharply by brilliant flashes and overtones of
scarlet, reflecting with subtle accuracy the tumult in his own mind. Not
a sound was in the air, not a whisper nor sign of human habitation.
Vaguely, uneasiness grew in his mind as he entered the shuttle station.
Suddenly, the music caught him, a long, low chord of indescribable
beauty, rising and falling in the wind, a distant whisper of life....

The concert, of course. Everyone would be at the concert tonight, and
even from two miles away, the beauty of four hundred perfectly
harmonized voices was carried on the breeze. Ravdin's uneasiness
disappeared; he was eager to discharge his horrible news, get it off his
mind and join the others in the great amphitheater set deep in the
hillside outside the city. But he knew instinctively that Lord Nehmon,
anticipating his return, would not be at the concert.

Riding the shuttle over the edges of Jungle-land toward the shining
bright beauty of the city, Ravdin settled back, trying to clear his mind
of the shock and horror he had encountered on his journey. The curves
and spires of glowing plastic passed him, lighted with a million hues.
He realized that his whole life was entangled in the very beauty of this
wonderful city. Everything he had ever hoped or dreamed lay sheltered
here in the ever-changing rhythm of colors and shapes and sounds. And
now, he knew, he would soon see his beloved city burning once again,
turning to flames and ashes in a heart-breaking memorial to the age-old
fear of his people.

The little shuttle-car settled down softly on the green terrace near
the center of the city. The building was a masterpiece of smoothly
curving walls and tasteful lines, opening a full side to the south to
catch the soft sunlight and warm breezes. Ravdin strode across the deep
carpeting of the terrace. There was other music here, different music, a
wilder, more intimate fantasy of whirling sound. An oval door opened for
him, and he stopped short, staggered for a moment by the overpowering
beauty in the vaulted room.

A girl with red hair the color of new flame was dancing with enthralling
beauty and abandon, her body moving like ripples of wind to the music
which filled the room with its throbbing cry. Her beauty was exquisite,
every motion, every flowing turn a symphony of flawless perfection as
she danced to the wild music.

"Lord Nehmon!"

The dancer threw back her head sharply, eyes wide, her body frozen in
mid-air, and then, abruptly, she was gone, leaving only the barest
flickering image of her fiery hair. The music slowed, singing softly,
and Ravdin could see the old man waiting in the room. Nehmon rose, his
gaunt face and graying hair belying the youthful movement of his body.
Smiling, he came forward, clapped Ravdin on the shoulder, and took his
hand warmly. "You're too late for the concert--it's a shame. Mischana is
the master tonight, and the whole city is there."

Ravdin's throat tightened as he tried to smile. "I had to let you know,"
he said. "_They're coming_, Nehmon! I saw them, hours ago."

The last overtones of the music broke abruptly, like a glass shattered
on stone. The room was deathly still. Lord Nehmon searched the young
man's face. Then he turned away, not quite concealing the sadness and
pain in his eyes. "You're certain? You couldn't be mistaken?"

"No chance. I found signs of their passing in a dozen places. Then I
saw _them_, their whole fleet. There were hundreds. They're coming, I
saw them."

"Did they see you?" Nehmon's voice was sharp.

"No, no. The Warp is a wonderful thing. With it I could come and go in
the twinkling of an eye. But I could see them in the twinkling of an
eye."

"And it couldn't have been anyone else?"

"Could anyone else build ships like the Hunters?"

Nehmon sighed wearily. "No one that we know." He glanced up at the young
man. "Sit down, son, sit down. I--I'll just have to rearrange my
thinking a little. Where were they? How far?"

"Seven light years," Ravdin said. "Can you imagine it? Just seven, and
moving straight this way. _They know where we are_, and they are coming
quickly." His eyes filled with fear. "They _couldn't_ have found us so
soon, unless they too have discovered the Warp and how to use it to
travel."

The older man's breath cut off sharply, and there was real alarm in his
eyes. "You're right," he said softly. "Six months ago it was eight
hundred light years away, in an area completely remote from us. Now just
_seven_. In six months they have come so close."

The scout looked up at Nehmon in desperation. "But what can we do? We
have only weeks, maybe days, before they're here. We have no time to
plan, no time to prepare for them. What can we do?"

The room was silent. Finally the aged leader stood up, wearily, some
fraction of his six hundred years of life showing in his face for the
first time in centuries. "We can do once again what we always have done
before when the Hunters came," he said sadly. "We can run away."

       *       *       *       *       *

The bright street below the oval window was empty and quiet. Not a
breath of air stirred in the city. Ravdin stared out in bitter silence.
"Yes, we can run away. Just as we always have before. After we have
worked so hard, accomplished so much here, we must burn the city and
flee again." His voice trailed off to silence. He stared at Nehmon,
seeking in the old man's face some answer, some reassurance. But he
found no answer there, only sadness. "Think of the concerts. It's taken
so long, but at last we've come so close to the ultimate goal." He
gestured toward the thought-sensitive sounding boards lining the walls,
the panels which had made the dancer-illusion possible. "Think of the
beauty and peace we've found here."

"I know. How well I know."

"Yet now the Hunters come again, and again we must run away." Ravdin
stared at the old man, his eyes suddenly bright. "Nehmon, when I saw
those ships I began thinking."

"I've spent many years thinking, my son."

"Not what I've been thinking." Ravdin sat down, clasping his hands in
excitement. "The Hunters come and we run away, Nehmon. Think about that
for a moment. We run, and we run, and we run. From what? We run from the
Hunters. They're hunting _us_, these Hunters. They've never quite found
us, because we've always already run. We're clever, we're fortunate, and
we have a way of life that they do not, so whenever they have come close
to finding us, we have run."

Nehmon nodded slowly. "For thousands of years."

Ravdin's eyes were bright. "Yes, we flee, we cringe, we hide under
stones, we break up our lives and uproot our families, running like
frightened animals in the shadows of night and secrecy." He gulped a
breath, and his eyes sought Nehmon's angrily. "_Why do we run, my
lord?_"

Nehmon's eyes widened. "Because we have no choice," he said. "We must
run or be killed. You know that. You've seen the records, you've been
taught."

"Oh, yes, I know what I've been taught. I've been taught that eons ago
our remote ancestors fought the Hunters, and lost, and fled, and were
pursued. But why do we keep running? Time after time we've been
cornered, and we've turned and fled. _Why?_ Even animals know that when
they're cornered they must turn and fight."

"We are not animals." Nehmon's voice cut the air like a whiplash.

"But we could fight."

"Animals fight. We do not. We fought once, like animals, and now we must
run from the Hunters who continue to fight like animals. So be it. Let
the Hunters fight."

Ravdin shook his head. "Do you mean that the Hunters are not men like
us?" he said. "That's what you're saying, that they are animals. All
right. We kill animals for our food, isn't that true? We kill the
tiger-beasts in the Jungle to protect ourselves, why not kill the
Hunters to protect ourselves?"

Nehmon sighed, and reached out a hand to the young man. "I'm sorry," he
said gently. "It seems logical, but it's false logic. The Hunters are
men just like you and me. Their lives are different, their culture is
different, but they are men. And human life is sacred, to us, above all
else. This is the fundamental basis of our very existence. Without it we
would be Hunters, too. If we fight, we are dead even if we live. That's
why we must run away now, and always. Because we know that we must not
kill men."

       *       *       *       *       *

On the street below, the night air was suddenly full of voices,
chattering, intermingled with whispers of song and occasional brief
harmonic flutterings. The footfalls were muted on the polished pavement
as the people passed slowly, their voices carrying a hint of puzzled
uneasiness.

"The concert's over!" Ravdin walked to the window, feeling a chill pass
through him. "So soon, I wonder why?" Eagerly he searched the faces
passing in the street for Dana's face, sensing the lurking discord in
the quiet talk of the crowd. Suddenly the sound-boards in the room
tinkled a carillon of ruby tones in his ear, and she was in the room,
rushing into his arms with a happy cry, pressing her soft cheek to his
rough chin. "You're back! Oh, I'm so glad, so very glad!" She turned to
the old man. "Nehmon, what has happened? The concert was ruined tonight.
There was something in the air, everybody felt it. For some reason the
people seemed _afraid_."

Ravdin turned away from his bride. "Tell her," he said to the old man.

Dana looked at them, her gray eyes widening in horror. "The Hunters!
They've found us?"

Ravdin nodded wordlessly.

Her hands trembled as she sat down, and there were tears in her eyes.
"We came so close tonight, so very close. I _felt_ the music before it
was sung, do you realize that? I _felt_ the fear around me, even though
no one said a word. It wasn't vague or fuzzy, it was _clear_! The
transference was perfect." She turned to face the old man. "It's taken
so long to come this far, Nehmon. So much work, so much training to
reach a perfect communal concert. We've had only two hundred years here,
only _two hundred_! I was just a little girl when we came, I can't even
remember before that. Before we came here we were undisturbed for a
thousand years, and before that, four thousand. But _two hundred_--we
_can't_ leave now. Not when we've come so far."

Ravdin nodded. "That's the trouble. They come closer every time. This
time they will catch us. Or the next time, or the next. And that will be
the end of everything for us, unless we fight them." He paused, watching
the last groups dispersing on the street below. "If we only knew, for
certain, what we were running from."

There was a startled silence. The girl's breath came in a gasp and her
eyes widened as his words sank home. "Ravdin," she said softly, "_have
you ever seen a Hunter_?"

Ravdin stared at her, and felt a chill of excitement. Music burst from
the sounding-board, odd, wild music, suddenly hopeful. "No," he said,
"no, of course not. You know that."

The girl rose from her seat. "Nor have I. Never, not once." She turned
to Lord Nehmon. "Have _you_?"

"Never." The old man's voice was harsh.

"Has _anyone_ ever seen a Hunter?"

Ravdin's hand trembled. "I--I don't know. None of us living now, no.
It's been too long since they last actually found us. I've read--oh, I
can't remember. I think my grandfather saw them, or my great-grandfather,
somewhere back there. It's been thousands of years."

"Yet we've been tearing ourselves up by the roots, fleeing from planet
to planet, running and dying and still running. But suppose we don't
need to run anymore?"

He stared at her. "They keep coming. They keep searching for us. What
more proof do you need?"

Dana's face glowed with excitement, alive with new vitality, new hope.
"Ravdin, can't you see? _They might have changed._ They might not be the
same. Things can happen. Look at us, how we've grown since the wars with
the Hunters. Think how our philosophy and culture have matured! Oh,
Ravdin, you were to be master at a concert next month. Think how the
concerts have changed! Even my grandmother can remember when the
concerts were just a few performers playing, and everyone else just
sitting and _listening_! Can you imagine anything more silly? They
hadn't even thought of transference then, they never dreamed what a
_real_ concert could be! Why, those people had never begun to understand
music until they themselves became a part of it. Even we can see these
changes, why couldn't the Hunters have grown and changed just as we
have?"

Nehmon's voice broke in, almost harshly, as he faced the excited pair.
"The Hunters don't have concerts," he said grimly. "You're deluding
yourself, Dana. They laugh at our music, they scoff at our arts and
twist them into obscene mockeries. They have no concept of beauty in
their language. The Hunters are incapable of change."

"And you can be certain of that when _nobody has seen them for thousands
of years_?"

Nehmon met her steady eyes, read the strength and determination there.
He knew, despairingly, what she was thinking--that he was old, that he
couldn't understand, that his mind was channeled now beyond the approach
of wisdom. "You mustn't think what you're thinking," he said weakly.
"You'd be blind. You wouldn't know, you couldn't have any idea what you
would find. If you tried to contact them, you could be lost completely,
tortured, killed. If they haven't changed, you wouldn't stand a chance.
You'd never come back, Dana."

"But she's right all the same," Ravdin said softly. "You're wrong, my
lord. We can't continue this way if we're to survive. Sometime our
people must contact them, find the link that was once between us, and
forge it strong again. We could do it, Dana and I."

"I could forbid you to go."

Dana looked at her husband, and her eyes were proud. "You could forbid
us," she said, facing the old man. "But you could never stop us."

       *       *       *       *       *

At the edge of the Jungle-land a great beast stood with green-gleaming
eyes, licking his fanged jaws as he watched the glowing city, sensing
somehow that the mystifying circle of light and motion was soon to
become his Jungle-land again. In the city the turmoil bubbled over, as
wave after wave of the people made the short safari across the
intervening jungle to the circles of their ships. Husbands, wives,
fathers, mothers--all carried their small, frail remembrances out to the
ships. There was music among them still, but it was a different sort of
music, now, an eerie, hopeless music that drifted out of the city in the
wind. It caused all but the bravest of the beasts, their hair prickling
on their backs, to run in panic through the jungle darkness. It was a
melancholy music, carried from thought to thought, from voice to voice
as the people of the city wearily prepared themselves once again for the
long journey.

To run away. In the darkness of secrecy, to be gone, without a trace,
without symbol or vestige of their presence, leaving only the scorched
circle of land for the jungle to reclaim, so that no eyes, not even the
sharpest, would ever know how long they had stayed, nor where they might
have gone.

In the rounded room of his house, Lord Nehmon dispatched the last of his
belongings, a few remembrances, nothing more, because the space on the
ships must take people, not remembrances, and he knew that the
remembrances would bring only pain. All day Nehmon had supervised the
loading, the intricate preparation, following plans laid down millennia
before. He saw the libraries and records transported, mile upon endless
mile of microfilm, carted to the ships prepared to carry them, stored
until a new resting place was found. The history of a people was
recorded on that film, a people once proud and strong, now equally
proud, but dwindling in numbers as toll for the constant roving. A proud
people, yet a people who would turn and run without thought, in a panic
of age-old fear. They _had_ to run, Nehmon knew, if they were to
survive.

And with a blaze of anger in his heart, he almost hated the two young
people waiting here with him for the last ship to be filled. For these
two would not go.

It had been a long and painful night. He had pleaded and begged, tried
to persuade them that there was no hope, that the very idea of remaining
behind or trying to contact the Hunters was insane. Yet he knew _they_
were sane, perhaps unwise, naive, but their decision had been reached,
and they would not be shaken.

The day was almost gone as the last ships began to fill. Nehmon turned
to Ravdin and Dana, his face lined and tired. "You'll have to go soon,"
he said. "The city will be burned, of course, as always. You'll be left
with food, and with weapons against the jungle. The Hunters will know
that we've been here, but they'll not know when, nor where we have
gone." He paused. "It will be up to you to see that they don't learn."

Dana shook her head. "We'll tell them nothing, unless it's safe for them
to know."

"They'll question you, even torture you."

She smiled calmly. "Perhaps they won't. But as a last resort, we can
blank out."

Nehmon's face went white. "You know there is no coming back, once you do
that. You would never regain your memory. You must save it for a last
resort."

Down below on the street the last groups of people were passing; the
last sweet, eerie tones of the concert were rising in the gathering
twilight. Soon the last families would have taken their refuge in the
ships, waiting for Nehmon to trigger the fire bombs to ignite the
beautiful city after the ships started on their voyage. The concerts
were over; there would be long years of aimless wandering before another
home could be found, another planet safe from the Hunters and their
ships. Even then it would be more years before the concerts could again
rise from their hearts and throats and minds, generations before they
could begin work again toward the climactic expression of their
heritage.

Ravdin felt the desolation in the people's minds, saw the utter
hopelessness in the old man's face, and suddenly felt the pressure of
despair. It was such a slender hope, so frail and so dangerous. He knew
of the terrible fight, the war of his people against the Hunters, so
many thousand years before. They had risen together, a common people,
their home a single planet. And then, the gradual splitting of the
nations, his own people living in peace, seeking the growth and beauty
of the arts, despising the bitterness and barrenness of hatred and
killing--and the Hunters, under an iron heel of militarism, of
government for the perpetuation of government, split farther and farther
from them. It was an ever-widening split as the Hunters sneered and
ridiculed, and then grew to hate Ravdin's people for all the things the
Hunters were losing: peace, love, happiness. Ravdin knew of his people's
slowly dawning awareness of the sanctity of life, shattered abruptly by
the horrible wars, and then the centuries of fear and flight, hiding
from the wrath of the Hunters' vengeance. His people had learned much in
those long years. They had conquered disease. They had grown in strength
as they dwindled in numbers. But now the end could be seen, crystal
clear, the end of his people and a ghastly grave.

Nehmon's voice broke the silence. "If you must stay behind, then go now.
The city will burn an hour after the count-down."

"We will be safe, outside the city." Dana gripped her husband's hand,
trying to transmit to him some part of her strength and confidence.
"Wish us the best, Nehmon. If a link can be forged, we will forge it."

"I wish you the best in everything." There were tears in the old man's
eyes as he turned and left the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

They stood in the Jungle-land, listening to the scurry of frightened
animals, and shivering in the cool night air as the bright sparks of the
ships' exhausts faded into the black starry sky. A man and a woman
alone, speechless, watching, staring with awful longing into the skies
as the bright rocket jets dwindled to specks and flickered out.

The city burned. Purple spumes of flame shot high into the air, throwing
a ghastly light on the frightened Jungle-land. Spires of flame seemed to
be seeking the stars with their fingers as the plastic walls and streets
of the city hissed and shriveled, blackening, bubbling into a vanishing
memory before their eyes. The flames shot high, carrying with them the
last remnants of the city which had stood proud and tall an hour before.
Then a silence fell, deathly, like the lifeless silence of a grave. Out
of the silence, little whispering sounds of the Jungle-land crept to
their ears, first frightened, then curious, then bolder and bolder as
the wisps of grass and little animals ventured out and out toward the
clearing where the city had stood. Bit by bit the Jungle-land gathered
courage, and the clearing slowly, silently, began to disappear.

Days later new sparks of light appeared in the black sky. They grew to
larger specks, then to flares, and finally settled to the earth as
powerful, flaming jets.

They were squat, misshapen vessels, circling down like vultures,
hissing, screeching, landing with a grinding crash in the tall thicket
near the place where the city had stood. Ravdin's signal had guided them
in, and the Hunters had seen them, standing on a hilltop above the
demolished amphitheater. Men had come out of the ships, large men with
cold faces and dull eyes, weapons strapped to their trim uniforms. The
Hunters had blinked at them, unbelieving, with their weapons held at
ready. Ravdin and Dana were seized and led to the flagship.

As they approached it, their hearts sank and they clasped hands to
bolster their failing hope.

The leader of the Hunters looked up from his desk as they were thrust
into his cabin. Frankle's face was a graven mask as he searched their
faces dispassionately. The captives were pale and seemed to cringe from
the pale interrogation light. "Chickens!" the Hunter snorted. "We have
been hunting down chickens." His eyes turned to one of the guards. "They
have been searched?"

"Of course, master."

"And questioned?"

The guard frowned. "Yes, sir. But their language is almost
unintelligible."

"You've studied the basic tongues, haven't you?" Frankle's voice was as
cold as his eyes.

"Of course, sir, but this is so different."

Frankle stared in contempt at the fair-skinned captives, fixing his
eyes on them for a long moment. Finally he said, "Well?"

Ravdin glanced briefly at Dana's white face. His voice seemed weak and
high-pitched in comparison to the Hunter's baritone. "You are the leader
of the Hunters?"

Frankle regarded him sourly, without replying. His thin face was
swarthy, his short-cut gray hair matching the cold gray of his eyes. It
was an odd face, completely blank of any thought or emotion, yet capable
of shifting to a strange biting slyness in the briefest instant. It was
a rich face, a face of inscrutable depth. He pushed his chair back, his
eyes watchful. "We know your people were here," he said suddenly. "Now
they've gone, and yet you remain behind. There must be a reason for such
rashness. Are you sick? Crippled?"

Ravdin shook his head. "We are not sick."

"Then criminals, perhaps? Being punished for rebellious plots?"

"We are not criminals."

The Hunter's fist crashed on the desk. "Then why are you here? _Why?_
Are you going to tell me now, or do you propose to waste a few hours of
my time first?"

"There is no mystery," Ravdin said softly. "We stayed behind to plead
for peace."

"For peace?" Frankle stared in disbelief. Then he shrugged, his face
tired. "I might have known. Peace! Where have your people gone?"

Ravdin met him eye for eye. "I can't say."

The Hunter laughed. "Let's be precise, you don't _choose_ to say, just
now. But perhaps very soon you will wish with all your heart to tell
me."

Dana's voice was sharp. "We're telling you the truth. We want peace,
nothing more. This constant hunting and running is senseless, exhausting
to both of us. We want to make peace with you, to bring our people
together again."

Frankle snorted. "You came to us in war, once, long ago. Now you want
peace. What would you do, clasp us to your bosom, smother us in your
idiotic music? Or have you gone on to greater things?"

Ravdin's face flushed hotly. "Much greater things," he snapped.

Frankle sat down slowly. "No doubt," he said. "Now understand me
clearly. Very soon you will be killed. How quickly or slowly you die
will depend largely upon the civility of your tongues. A civil tongue
answers questions with the right answers. That is my definition of a
civil tongue." He sat back coldly. "Now, shall we commence asking
questions?"

Dana stepped forward suddenly, her cheeks flushed. "We don't have the
words to express ourselves," she said softly. "We can't tell you in
words what we have to say, but music is a language even you can
understand. We can tell you what we want in music."

Frankle scowled. He knew about the magic of this music, he had heard of
the witchcraft these weak chicken-people could weave, of their strange,
magic power to steal strong men's minds from them and make them like
children before wolves. But he had never heard this music with his own
ears. He looked at them, his eyes strangely bright. "You know I cannot
listen to your music. It is forbidden, even you should know that. How
dare you propose--"

"But this is different music." Dana's eyes widened, and she threw an
excited glance at her husband. "Our music is beautiful, wonderful to
hear. If you could only hear it--"

"Never." The man hesitated. "Your music is forbidden, poisonous."

Her smile was like sweet wine, a smile that worked into the Hunter's
mind like a gentle, lazy drug. "But who is to permit or forbid? After
all, you are the leader here, and forbidden pleasures are all the
sweeter."

Frankle's eyes were on hers, fascinated. Slowly, with a graceful
movement, she drew the gleaming thought-sensitive stone from her
clothing. It glowed in the room with a pearly luminescence, and she saw
the man's eyes turning to it, drawn as if by magic. Then he looked away,
and a cruel smile curled his lips. He motioned toward the stone. "All
right," he said mockingly. "Do your worst. Show me your precious music."

Like a tinkle of glass breaking in a well, the stone flashed its fiery
light in the room. Little swirls of music seemed to swell from it,
blossoming in the silence. Frankle tensed, a chill running up his spine,
his eyes drawn back to the gleaming jewel. Suddenly, the music filled
the room, rising sweetly like an overpowering wave, filling his mind
with strange and wonderful images. The stone shimmered and changed,
taking the form of dancing clouds of light, swirling with the music as
it rose. Frankle felt his mind groping toward the music, trying
desperately to reach into the heart of it, to become part of it.

Ravdin and Dana stood there, trancelike, staring transfixed at the
gleaming center of light, forcing their joined minds to create the
crashing, majestic chords as the song lifted from the depths of oblivion
to the heights of glory in the old, old song of their people.

A song of majesty, and strength, and dignity. A song of love, of
aspiration, a song of achievement. A song of peoples driven by ancient
fears across the eons of space, seeking only peace, even peace with
those who drove them.

Frankle heard the music, and could not comprehend, for his mind could
not grasp the meaning, the true overtones of those glorious chords, but
he felt the strangeness in the pangs of fear which groped through his
mind, cringing from the wonderful strains, dazzled by the dancing light.
He stared wide-eyed and trembling at the couple across the room, and for
an instant it seemed that he was stripped naked. For a fleeting moment
the authority was gone from his face; gone too was the cruelty, the
avarice, the sardonic mockery. For the briefest moment his cold gray
eyes grew incredibly tender with a sudden ancient, long-forgotten
longing, crying at last to be heard.

And then, with a scream of rage he was stumbling into the midst of the
light, lashing out wildly at the heart of its shimmering brilliance. His
huge hand caught the hypnotic stone and swept it into crashing,
ear-splitting cacophony against the cold steel bulkhead. He stood rigid,
his whole body shaking, eyes blazing with fear and anger and hatred as
he turned on Ravdin and Dana. His voice was a raging storm of bitterness
drowning out the dying strains of the music.

"Spies! You thought you could steal my mind away, make me forget my duty
and listen to your rotten, poisonous noise! Well, you failed, do you
hear? I didn't hear it, I didn't listen, _I didn't_! I'll hunt you down
as my fathers hunted you down, I'll bring my people their vengeance and
glory, and your foul music will be dead!"

He turned to the guards, wildly, his hands still trembling. "Take them
out! Whip them, burn them, do anything! But find out where their people
have gone. Find out! Music! We'll take the music out of them, once and
for all."

       *       *       *       *       *

The inquisition had been horrible. Their minds had had no concept of
such horror, such relentless, racking pain. The blazing lights, the
questions screaming in their ears, Frankle's vicious eyes burning in
frustration, and their own screams, rising with each question they would
not answer until their throats were scorched and they could no longer
scream. Finally they reached the limit they could endure, and muttered
together the hoarse words that could deliver them. Not words that
Frankle could hear, but words to bring deliverance, to blank out their
minds like a wet sponge over slate. The hypnotic key clicked into the
lock of their minds; their screams died in their brains. Frankle stared
at them, and knew instantly what they had done, a technique of memory
obliteration known and dreaded for so many thousands of years that
history could not remember. As his captives stood mindless before him,
he let out one hoarse, agonized scream of frustration and defeat.

But strangely enough he did not kill them. He left them on a cold stone
ledge, blinking dumbly at each other as the ships of his fleet rose one
by one and vanished like fireflies in the dark night sky. Naked, they
sat alone on the planet of the Jungle-land. They knew no words, no
music, nothing. And they did not even know that in the departing ships a
seed had been planted. For Frankle _had_ heard the music. He had grasped
the beauty of his enemies for that brief instant, and in that instant
they had become less his enemies. A tiny seed of doubt had been planted.
The seed would grow.

The two sat dumbly, shivering. Far in the distance, a beast roared
against the heavy night, and a light rain began to fall. They sat naked,
the rain soaking their skin and hair. Then one of them grunted, and
moved into the dry darkness of the cave. Deep within him some instinct
spoke, warning him to fear the roar of the animal.

Blinking dully, the woman crept into the cave after him. Three thoughts
alone filled their empty minds. Not thoughts of Nehmon and his people;
to them, Nehmon had never existed, forgotten as completely as if he had
never been. No thoughts of the Hunters, either, nor of their unheard-of
mercy in leaving them their lives--lives of memoryless oblivion, like
animals in this green Jungle-land, but lives nonetheless.

Only three thoughts filled their minds:

It was raining.

They were hungry.

The Saber-tooth was prowling tonight.

They never knew that the link had been forged.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Link, by Alan Edward Nourse

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LINK ***

***** This file should be named 22876.txt or 22876.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/2/8/7/22876/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
