The Project Gutenberg EBook of Image of the Gods, by Alan Edward Nourse

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Image of the Gods

Author: Alan Edward Nourse

Release Date: October 3, 2007 [EBook #22882]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IMAGE OF THE GODS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _The Counterfeit Man More Science
    Fiction Stories by Alan E. Nourse_ published in 1963. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on
    this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and typographical
    errors have been corrected without note.




 Image
 of
 the
 Gods




It was nearly winter when the ship arrived. Pete Farnam never knew if
the timing had been planned that way or not. It might have been
coincidence that it came just when the colony was predicting its first
real bumper crop of all time. When it was all over, Pete and Mario and
the rest tried to figure it out, but none of them ever knew for sure
just _what_ had happened back on Earth, or _when_ it had actually
happened. There was too little information to go on, and practically
none that they could trust. All Pete Farnam really knew, that day, was
that this was the wrong year for a ship from Earth to land on Baron IV.

Pete was out on the plantation when it landed. As usual, his sprayer had
gotten clogged; tarring should have been started earlier, before it got
so cold that the stuff clung to the nozzle and hardened before the spray
could settle into the dusty soil. The summer past had been the colony's
finest in the fourteen years he'd been there, a warm, still summer with
plenty of rain to keep the dirt down and let the _taaro_ get well rooted
and grow up tall and gray against the purple sky. But now the _taaro_
was harvested. It was waiting, compressed and crated, ready for
shipment, and the heavy black clouds were scudding nervously across the
sky, faster with every passing day. Two days ago Pete had asked Mario to
see about firing up the little furnaces the Dusties had built to help
them fight the winter. All that remained now was tarring the fields, and
then buckling down beneath the wind shields before the first winter
storms struck.

Pete was trying to get the nozzle of the tar sprayer cleaned out when
Mario's jeep came roaring down the rutted road from the village in a
cloud of dust. In the back seat a couple of Dusties were bouncing up and
down like happy five-year-olds. The brakes squealed and Mario bellowed
at him from the road. "Pete! The ship's in! Better get hopping!"

Pete nodded and started to close up the sprayer. One of the Dusties
tumbled out of the jeep and scampered across the field to give him a
hand. It was an inexpert hand to say the least, but the Dusties seemed
so proud of the little they were able to learn about mechanized farming
that nobody had the heart to shoo them away. Pete watched the fuzzy
brown creature get its paws thoroughly gummed up with tar before he
pulled him loose and sent him back to the jeep with a whack on the
backside. He finished the job himself, grabbed his coat from the back of
the sprayer, and pulled himself into the front seat of the jeep.

Mario started the little car back down the road. The young colonist's
face was coated with dust, emphasizing the lines of worry around his
eyes. "I don't like it, Pete. There isn't any ship due this year."

"When did it land?"

"About twenty minutes ago. Won't be cool for a while yet."

Pete laughed. "Maybe Old Schooner is just getting lonesome to swap tall
stories with us. Maybe he's even bringing us a locker of T-bones. Who
knows?"

"Maybe," said Mario without conviction.

Pete looked at him, and shrugged. "Why complain if they're early? Maybe
they've found some new way to keep our fields from blowing away on us
every winter." He stared across at the heavy windbreaks between the
fields--long, ragged structures built in hope of outwitting the vicious
winds that howled across the land during the long winter. Pete picked
bits of tar from his beard, and wiped the dirt from his forehead with
the back of his hand. "This tarring is mean," he said wearily. "Glad to
take a break."

"Maybe Cap Schooner will know something about the rumors we've been
hearing," Mario said gloomily.

Pete looked at him sharply. "About Earth?"

Mario nodded. "Schooner's a pretty good guy, I guess. I mean, he'd tell
us if anything was _really_ wrong back home, wouldn't he?"

Pete nodded, and snapped his fingers. One of the Dusties hopped over
into his lap and began gawking happily at the broad fields as the jeep
jogged along. Pete stroked the creature's soft brown fur with his
tar-caked fingers. "Maybe someday these little guys will show us where
_they_ go for the winter," he said. "They must have it down to a
science."

Somehow the idea was funny, and both men roared. If the Dusties had
_anything_ down to a science, nobody knew what. Mario grinned and
tweaked the creature's tail. "They sure do beat the winter, though," he
said.

"So do we. Only we have to do it the human way. These fellas grew up in
the climate." Pete lapsed into silence as the village came into view.
The ship had landed quite a way out, resting on its skids on the long
shallow groove the colonists had bulldozed out for it years before, the
first year they had arrived on Baron IV. Slowly Pete turned Mario's
words over in his mind, allowing himself to worry a little. There _had_
been rumors of trouble back on Earth, persistent rumors he had taken
care to soft-pedal, as mayor of the colony. There were other things,
too, like the old newspapers and magazines that had been brought in by
the lad from Baron II, and the rare radio message they could pick up
through their atmospheric disturbance. Maybe something _was_ going wrong
back home. But somehow political upheavals on Earth seemed remote to
these hardened colonists. Captain Schooner's visits were always welcome,
but they were few and far between. The colony was small; one ship every
three years could supply it, and even then the _taaro_ crates wouldn't
half fill up the storage holds. There were other colonies far closer to
home that sent back more _taaro_ in one year than Baron IV could grow in
ten.

But when a ship did come down, it was a time of high excitement. It
meant fresh food from Earth, meat from the frozen lockers, maybe even a
little candy and salt. And always for Pete a landing meant a long
evening of palaver with the captain about things back home and things on
Baron IV.

Pete smiled to himself as he thought of it. He could remember Earth, of
course, with a kind of vague nostalgia, but Baron IV was home to him now
and he knew he would never leave it. He had too many hopes invested
there, too many years of heartache and desperate hard work, too much
deep satisfaction in having cut a niche for himself on this dusty,
hostile world, ever to think much about Earth any more.

Mario stopped in front of the offices, and one of the Dusties hopped out
ahead of Pete. The creature strode across the rough gravel to the door,
pulling tar off his fingers just as he had seen Pete do. Pete followed
him to the door, and then stopped, frowning. There should have been a
babble of voices inside, with Captain Schooner's loud laugh roaring
above the excitement. But Pete could hear nothing. A chill of uneasiness
ran through him; he pushed open the door and walked inside. A dozen of
his friends looked up silently, avoiding the eyes of the uniformed
stranger in the center of the room. When he saw the man, Pete Farnam
knew something was wrong indeed.

It wasn't Captain Schooner. It was a man he'd never seen before.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Dustie ran across the room in front of Pete and hopped up on the
desk as though he owned it, throwing his hands on his hips and staring
at the stranger curiously. Pete took off his cap and parka and dropped
them on a chair. "Well," he said. "This is a surprise. We weren't
expecting a ship so soon."

The man inclined his head stiffly and glanced down at the paper he held
in his hand. "You're Peter Farnam, I suppose? Mayor of this colony?"

"That's right. And you?"

"Varga is the name," the captain said shortly. "Earth Security and
Supply." He nodded toward the small, frail-looking man in civilian
clothes, sitting beside him. "This is Rupert Nathan, of the Colonial
Service. You'll be seeing a great deal of him." He held out a small
wallet of papers. "Our credentials, Farnam. Be so good as to examine
them."

Pete glanced around the room. John Tegan and Hank Mario were watching
him uneasily. Mary Turner was following the proceedings with her sharp
little eyes, missing nothing, and Mel Dorfman stood like a rock, his
heavy face curiously expressionless as he watched the visitors. Pete
reached out for the papers, flipped through them, and handed them back
with a long look at Captain Varga.

He was younger than Captain Schooner, with sandy hair and pale eyes that
looked up at Pete from a soft baby face. Clean-shaven, his whole person
seemed immaculate as he leaned back calmly in the chair. His civilian
companion, however, had indecision written in every line of his pink
face. His hands fluttered nervously, and he avoided the colonist's eyes.

Pete turned to the captain. "The papers say you're our official supply
ship," he said. "You're early, but an Earth ship is always good news."
He clucked at the Dustie, who was about to go after one of the shiny
buttons on the captain's blouse. The little brown creature hopped over
and settled on Pete's knee. "We've been used to seeing Captain
Schooner."

The captain and Nathan exchanged glances. "Captain Schooner has retired
from Security Service," the captain said shortly. "You won't be seeing
him again. But we have a cargo for your colony. You may send these
people over to the ship to start unloading now, if you wish--" his eye
swept the circle of windburned faces--"while Nathan and I discuss
certain matters with you here."

Nobody moved for a moment. Then Pete nodded to Mario. "Take the boys out
to unload, Jack. We'll see you back here in an hour or so."

"Pete, are you sure--"

"Don't worry. Take Mel and Hank along to lend a hand." Pete turned back
to Captain Varga. "Suppose we go inside to more comfortable quarters,"
he said. "We're always glad to have word from Earth."

They passed through a dark, smelly corridor into Pete's personal
quarters. For a colony house, if wasn't bad--good plastic chairs, a
hand-made rug on the floor, even one of Mary Turner's paintings on the
wall, and several of the weird, stylized carvings the Dusties had done
for Pete. But the place smelled of tar and sweat, and Captain Varga's
nose wrinkled in distaste. Nathan drew out a large silk handkerchief and
wiped his pink hands, touching his nose daintily.

The Dustie hopped into the room ahead of them and settled into the
biggest, most comfortable chair. Pete snapped his fingers sharply, and
the brown creature jumped down again like a naughty child and climbed up
on Pete's knee. The captain glanced at the chair with disgust and sat
down in another. "Do you actually let those horrid creatures have the
run of your house?" he asked.

"Why not?" Pete said. "We have the run of their planet. They're quite
harmless, really. And quite clean."

The captain sniffed. "Nasty things. Might find a use for the furs,
though. They look quite soft."

"We don't kill Dusties," said Pete coolly. "They're friendly, and
intelligent too, in a childish sort of way." He looked at the captain
and Nathan, and decided not to put on the coffee pot. "Now what's the
trouble?"

"No trouble at all," the captain said, "except the trouble you choose to
make. You have your year's _taaro_ ready for shipping?"

"Of course."

The captain took out a small pencil on a chain and began to twirl it.
"How much, to be exact?"

"Twenty thousand, Earth weight."

"Tons?"

Pete shook his head. "Hundredweight."

The captain raised his eyebrows. "I see. And there are--" he consulted
the papers in his hand--"roughly two hundred and twenty colonists here
on Baron IV. Is that right?"

"That's right."

"Seventy-four men, eighty-one women, and fifty-nine children, to be
exact?"

"I'd have to look it up. Margaret Singman had twins the other night."

"Well, don't be ridiculous," snapped the captain. "On a planet the size
of Baron IV, with seventy-four men, you should be producing a dozen
times the _taaro_ you stated. We'll consider that your quota for a
starter, at least. You have ample seed, according to my records. I
should think, with the proper equipment--"

"Now wait a minute," Pete said softly. "We're fighting a climate here,
captain. You should know that. We have only a two-planting season, and
the 'proper equipment,' as you call it, doesn't operate too well out
here. It has a way of clogging up with dust in the summer, and rusting
in the winter."

"Really," said Captain Varga. "As I was saying, with the proper
equipment, you could cultivate a great deal more land than you seem to
be using. This would give you the necessary heavier yield. Wouldn't you
say so, Nathan?"

The little nervous man nodded. "Certainly, captain. With the proper
organization of labor."

"That's nonsense," Pete said, suddenly angry. "Nobody can get that kind
of yield from this planet. The ground won't give it, and the men won't
grow it."

The captain gave him a long look. "Really?" he said. "I think you're
wrong. I think the men will grow it."

Pete stood up slowly. "What are you trying to say? This business about
quotas and organization of labor--"

"You didn't read our credentials as we instructed you, Farnam. Mr.
Nathan is the official governor of the colony on Baron IV, as of now.
You'll find him most co-operative, I'm sure, but he's answerable
directly to me in all matters. My job is administration of the entire
Baron system. Clear enough?"

Pete's eyes were dark. "I think you'd better draw me a picture," he said
tightly. "A very clear picture."

"Very well. Baron IV is not paying for its upkeep. _Taaro_, after all,
is not the most necessary of crops in the universe. It has value, but
not very much value, all things considered. If the production of _taaro_
here is not increased sharply, it may be necessary to close down the
colony altogether."

"You're a liar," said Pete shortly. "The Colonization Board makes no
production demands on the colonies. Nor does it farm out systems for
personal exploitation."

The captain smiled. "The Colonization Board, as you call it, has
undergone a slight reorganization," he said.

"_Reorganization!_ It's a top-level board in the Earth Government!
Nothing could reorganize it but a wholesale--" He broke off, his jaw
sagging as the implication sank in.

"You're rather out on a limb, you see," said the captain coolly. "Poor
communications and all that. The fact is that the entire Earth
Government has undergone a slight reorganization also."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Dustie knew that something had happened.

Pete didn't know how he knew. The Dusties couldn't talk, couldn't make
_any_ noise, as far as Pete knew. But they always seemed to know when
something unusual was happening. It was wrong, really, to consider them
unintelligent animals. There are other sorts of intelligence than human,
and other sorts of communication, and other sorts of culture. The Baron
IV colonists had never understood the queer perceptive sense that the
Dusties seemed to possess, any more than they knew how many Dusties
there were, or what they ate, or where on the planet they lived. All
they knew was that when they landed on Baron IV, the Dusties were there.

At first the creatures had been very timid. For weeks the men and women,
busy with their building, had paid little attention to the skittering
brown forms that crept down from the rocky hills to watch them with big,
curious eyes. They were about half the size of men, and strangely
humanoid in appearance, not in the sense that a monkey is humanoid (for
they did _not_ resemble monkeys) but in some way the colonists could not
quite pin down. It may have been the way they walked around on their
long, fragile hind legs, the way they stroked their pointed chins as
they sat and watched and listened with their pointed ears lifted
alertly, watching with soft gray eyes, or the way they handled objects
with their little four-fingered hands. They were so remarkably
human-like in their elfin way that the colonists couldn't help but be
drawn to the creatures.

That whole first summer, when the colonists were building the village
and the landing groove for the ships, the Dusties were among them,
trying pathetically to help, so eager for friendship that even
occasional rebuffs failed to drive them away. They _liked_ the colony.
They seemed, somehow, to savor the atmosphere, moving about like solemn,
fuzzy overseers as the work progressed through the summer. Pete Farnam
thought that they had even tried to warn the people about the winter.
But the colonists couldn't understand, of course. Not until later. The
Dusties became a standing joke, and were tolerated with considerable
amusement--until the winter struck.

It had come with almost unbelievable ferocity. The houses had not been
completed when the first hurricanes came, and they were smashed into
toothpicks. The winds came, vicious winds full of dust and sleet and
ice, wild erratic twisting gales that ripped the village to shreds,
tearing off the topsoil that had been broken and fertilized--merciless,
never-ending winds that wailed and screamed the planet's protest. The
winds drove sand and dirt and ice into the heart of the generators, and
the heating units corroded and jammed and went dead. The jeeps and
tractors and bulldozers were scored and rusted. The people began dying
by the dozens as they huddled down in the pitiful little pits they had
dug to try to keep the winds away.

Few of them were still conscious when the Dusties had come silently, in
the blizzard, eyes closed tight against the blast, to drag the people up
into the hills, into caves and hollows that still showed the fresh marks
of carving tools. They had brought food--what kind of food nobody knew,
for the colony's food had been destroyed by the first blast of the
hurricane--but whatever it was it had kept them alive. And somehow, the
colonists had survived the winter which seemed never to end. There were
frozen legs and ruined eyes; there was pneumonia so swift and virulent
that even the antibiotics they managed to salvage could not stop it;
there was near-starvation--but they were kept alive, until the winds
began to die, and they walked out of their holes in the ground to see
the ruins of their first village.

From that winter on, nobody considered the Dusties funny any more. What
had motivated them no one knew, but the colony owed them their lives.
The Dusties tried to help the people rebuild. They showed them how to
build windshields that would keep houses intact and anchored to the
ground when the winds came again. They built little furnaces out of dirt
and rock which defied the winds and gave great heat. They showed the
colonists a dozen things they needed to know for life on the rugged
planet. The colonists in turn tried to teach the Dusties something about
Earth, and how the colonists had lived, and why they had come. But there
was a barrier of intelligence that could not be crossed. The Dusties
learned simple things, but only slowly and imperfectly. They seemed
content to take on their mock overseer's role, moving in and about the
village, approving or disapproving, but always trying to help. Some
became personal pets, though "pet" was the wrong word, because it was
more of a strange personal friendship limited by utter lack of
communication, than any animal-and-master relationship. The colonists
made sure that the Dusties were granted the respect due them as rightful
masters of Baron IV. And somehow the Dusties perceived this attitude,
and were so grateful for the acceptance and friendship that there seemed
nothing they wouldn't do for the colonists.

There had been many discussions about them. "You'd think they'd resent
our moving in on them," Jack Mario had said one day. "After all, we
_are_ usurpers. And they treat us like kings. Have you noticed the way
they mimic us? I saw one chewing tobacco the other day. He hated the
stuff, but he chewed away, and spat like a trooper."

One of the Dusties had been sitting on Pete's knee when Captain Varga
had been talking, and he had known that something terrible was wrong.
Now he sat on the desk in the office, moving uneasily back and forth as
Pete looked up at Mario's dark face, and then across at John Tegan and
Mel Dorfman. John's face was dark with anger as he ran his fingers
through the heavy gray beard that fell to his chest. Mel sat stunned,
shaking his head helplessly. Mario was unable to restrain himself. His
face was bitter as he stomped across the room, then returned to shake
his fist under Pete's nose. "But did you see him?" he choked. "Governor
of the colony! What does he know about growing _taaro_ in this kind of
soil? Did you see those hands? Soft, dainty, pink! How could a man with
hands like that govern a colony?"

Pete looked over at John Tegan. "Well, John?"

The big man looked up, his eyes hollow under craggy brows. "It's below
the belt, Pete. But if the government's been overthrown, then the
captain is right. It leaves us out on a limb."

Pete shook his head. "_I_ can't give him an answer," he said. "The
answer has got to come from the colony. All I can do is speak for the
colony."

Tegan stared at the floor. "We're an Earth colony," he said softly. "I
know that. I was born in New York. I lived there for many years. But
Earth isn't my home any more. This is." He looked at Pete. "I built it,
and so did you. All of us built it, even when things were getting stormy
back home. Maybe that's why we came, maybe somehow we saw the
handwriting on the wall."

"But when did it happen?" Mel burst out suddenly. "How could _anything_
so big happen so fast?"

"Speed was the secret," Pete said gloomily. "It was quick, it was well
organized, and the government was unstable. We're just caught in the
edge of it. Pity the ones living there, now. But the new government
considers the colonies as areas for exploitation instead of
development."

"Well, they can't do it," Mario cried. "This is _our_ land, _our_ home.
Nobody can tell us what to grow in our fields."

Pete's fist slammed down on the desk. "Well, how are you going to stop
them? The law of the land is sitting out there in that ship. Tomorrow
morning he's coming back here to install his fat little friend as
governor. He has guns and soldiers on that ship to back him up. What are
you going to do about it?"

"Fight it," Mario said.

"How?"

Jack Mario looked around the room. "There are only a dozen men on that
ship," he said softly. "We've got seventy-four. When Varga comes back to
the village tomorrow, we tell him to take his friend back to the ship
and shove off. We give him five minutes to get turned around, and if he
doesn't, we start shooting."

"Just one little thing," said Pete quietly. "What about the supplies?
Even if we fought them off and won, what about the food, the clothing,
the replacement parts for the machines?"

"We don't need machinery to farm this land," said Mario eagerly.
"There's food here, food we can live on; the Dusties showed us that the
first winter. And we can farm the land for our own use and let the
machinery rust. There's nothing they can bring us from Earth that we
can't do without."

"We couldn't get away with it!" Mel Dorfman shook his head bitterly.
"You're asking us to cut ourselves off from Earth completely. But they'd
never let us. They'd send ships to bomb us out."

"We could hide, and rebuild after they had finished."

Pete Farnam sighed. "They'd never leave us alone, Jack. Didn't you see
that captain? His kind of mind can't stand opposition. We'd just be a
thorn in the side of the new Earth Government. They don't want _any_
free colonies."

"Well, let's give them one." Mario sat down tiredly, snapping his
fingers at the Dustie. "Furs!" he snarled. He looked up, his dark eyes
burning. "It's no good, Pete. We can't let them get away with it.
Produce for them, yes. Try to raise the yield for them, yes. But not a
governor. If they insist on that we can throw them out, and keep them
out."

"I don't think so. They'd kill every one of us first."

John Tegan sat up, and looked Pete Farnam straight in the eye. "In that
case, Peter, it might just be better if they did."

Pete stared at him for a moment and slowly stood up. "All right," he
said. "Call a general colony meeting. We'll see what the women think.
Then we'll make our plans."

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship's jeep skidded to a halt in a cloud of dust. Captain Varga
peered through the windshield. Then he stood up, staring at the three
men blocking the road at the edge of the village. The little pink-faced
man at his side turned white when he saw their faces, and his fingers
began to tremble. Each of the men had a gun.

"You'd better clear the road," the captain snapped. "We're driving
through."

Pete Farnam stepped forward. He pointed to Nathan. "Take your friend
there back to the ship. Leave him there. We don't want him here."

Nathan turned to Varga. "I told you," he said viciously. "Too big for
their boots. Go on through."

The captain laughed and gunned the motor, started straight for the men
blocking the road. Then Jack Mario shot a hole in his front tire. The
jeep lurched to a stop. Captain Varga stood up, glaring at the men.
"Farnam, step out here," he said.

"You heard us," Pete said, without moving. "Crops, yes. We'll try to
increase our yield. But no overseer. Leave him here and we'll kill him."

"Once more," said the captain, "clear the way. This man is your new
governor. He will be regarded as the official agent of the Earth
Government until the final production capacity of this colony is
determined. Now clear out."

The men didn't move. Without another word, the captain threw the jeep
into reverse, jerked back in a curve, and started the jeep, flat tire
and all, back toward the ship in a billow of dust.

Abruptly the village exploded into activity. Four men took up places
behind the row of windbreaks beyond the first row of cabins. Pete turned
and ran back into the village. He found John Tegan commandeering a
squad of ten dirty-faced men. "Are the women and children all out?" he
shouted.

"All taken care of." Tegan spat tobacco juice, and wiped his mouth with
the back of his hand.

"Where's Mel?"

"Left flank. He'll try to move in behind them. Gonna be tough, Pete,
they've got good weapons."

"What about the boys last night?"

John was checking the bolt on his ancient rifle. "Hank and Ringo? Just
got back an hour ago. If Varga wants to get his surface planes into
action, he's going to have to dismantle them and rebuild them outside.
The boys jammed up the launching ports for good." He spat again. "Don't
worry, Pete. This is going to be a ground fight."

"Okay." Pete held out his hand to the old man. "This may be it. And if
we turn them back, there's bound to be more later."

"There's a lot of planet to hide on," said Tegan. "They may come back,
but after a while they'll go again."

Pete nodded. "I just hope we'll still be here when they do."

They waited. It seemed like hours. Pete moved from post to post among
the men, heavy-faced men he had known all his life, it seemed. They
waited with whatever weapons they had available--pistols, home-made
revolvers, ortho-guns, an occasional rifle, even knives and clubs.
Pete's heart sank. They were bitter men, but they were a mob with no
organization, no training for fighting. They would be facing a dozen of
Security's best-disciplined shock troops, armed with the latest weapons
from Earth's electronics laboratories. The colonists didn't stand a
chance.

Pete got his rifle and made his way up the rise of ground overlooking
the right flank of the village. Squinting, he could spot the cloud of
dust rising up near the glistening ship, moving toward the village. And
then, for the first time, he realized that he hadn't seen any Dusties
all day.

It puzzled him. They had been in the village in abundance an hour before
dawn, while the plans were being laid out. He glanced around, hoping to
see one of the fuzzy brown forms at his elbow, but he saw nothing. And
then, as he stared at the cloud of dust coming across the valley, he
thought he saw the ground moving.

He blinked, and rubbed his eyes. With a gasp he dragged out his
binoculars and peered down at the valley floor. There were thousands of
them, hundreds of thousands, their brown bodies moving slowly out from
the hills surrounding the village, converging into a broad, liquid
column between the village and the ship. Even as he watched, the column
grew thicker, like a heavy blanket being drawn across the road, a
multitude of Dusties lining up.

Pete's hair prickled on the back of his neck. They knew so little about
the creatures, so _very_ little. As he watched the brown carpet rolling
out, he tried to think. Could there be a weapon in their hands, could
they somehow have perceived the evil that came from the ship, somehow
sensed the desperation in the men's voices as they had laid their plans?
Pete stared, a sinking feeling in the pit of his stomach. They were
there in the road, thousands upon thousands of them, standing there,
waiting--for what?

Three columns of dust were coming from the road now. Through the glasses
Pete could see the jeeps, filled with men in their gleaming gray
uniforms, crash helmets tight about their heads, blasters glistening in
the pale light. They moved in deadly convoy along the rutted road,
closer and closer to the crowd of Dusties overflowing the road.

The Dusties just stood there. They didn't move. They didn't shift, or
turn. They just waited.

The captain's car was first in line. He pulled up before the line with a
screech of brakes, and stared at the sea of creatures before him. "Get
out of there!" he shouted.

The Dusties didn't move.

The captain turned to his men. "Fire into them," he snapped. "Clear a
path."

There was a blaze of fire, and a half a dozen Dusties slid to the
ground, convulsing. Pete felt a chill pass through him, staring in
disbelief. The Dusties had a weapon, he kept telling himself, they
_must_ have a weapon, something the colonists had never dreamed of. The
guns came up again, and another volley echoed across the valley, and a
dozen more Dusties fell to the ground. For every one that fell, another
moved stolidly into its place.

With a curse the captain sat down in the seat, gunned the motor, and
started forward. The jeep struck the fallen bodies, rolled over them,
and plunged straight into the wall of Dusties. Still they didn't move.
The car slowed and stopped, mired down. The other cars picked up
momentum and plunged into the brown river of creatures. They too ground
to a stop.

The captain started roaring at his men. "Cut them down! We're going to
get through here!" Blasters began roaring into the faces of the Dusties,
and as they fell the jeeps moved forward a few feet until more of the
creatures blocked their path.

Pete heard a cry below him, and saw Jack Mario standing in the road, gun
on the ground, hands out in front of him, staring in horror as the
Dusties kept moving into the fire. "Do you see what they're doing!" he
screamed. "They'll be slaughtered, every one of them!" And then he was
running down the road, shouting at them to stop, and so were Pete and
Tegan and the rest of the men.

Something hit Pete in the shoulder as he ran. He spun around and fell
into the dusty road. A dozen Dusties closed in around him, lifted him up
bodily, and started back through the village with him. He tried to
struggle, but vaguely he saw that the other men were being carried back
also, while the river of brown creatures held the jeeps at bay. The
Dusties were hurrying, half carrying and half dragging him back through
the village and up a long ravine into the hills beyond. At last they
set Pete on his feet again, plucking urgently at his shirt sleeve as
they hurried him along.

He followed them willingly, then, with the rest of the colonists at his
heels. He didn't know what the Dusties were doing, but he knew they were
trying to save him. Finally they reached a cave, a great cleft in the
rock that Pete knew for certain had not been there when he had led
exploring parties through these hills years before. It was a huge
opening, and already a dozen of the men were there, waiting, dazed by
what they had witnessed down in the valley, while more were stumbling up
the rocky incline, tugged along by the fuzzy brown creatures.

Inside the cavern, steps led down the side of the rock, deep into the
dark coolness of the earth. Down and down they went, until they suddenly
found themselves in a mammoth room lit by blazing torches. Pete stopped
and stared at his friends who had already arrived. Jack Mario was
sitting on the floor, his face in his hands, sobbing. Tegan was sitting,
too, blinking at Pete as if he were a stranger, and Dorfman was
trembling like a leaf. Pete stared about him through the dim light, and
then looked where Tegan was pointing at the end of the room.

He couldn't see it clearly, at first. Finally, he made out a raised
platform with four steps leading up. A torch lighted either side of a
dais at the top, and between the torches, rising high into the gloom,
stood a statue.

It was a beautifully carved thing, hewn from the heavy granite that made
up the core of this planet, with the same curious styling as other
carving the Dusties had done. The design was intricate, the lines
carefully turned and polished. At first Pete thought it was a statue of
a Dustie, but when he moved forward and squinted in the dim light, he
suddenly realized that it was something else indeed. And in that moment
he realized why they were there and why the Dusties had done this
incredible thing to protect them.

The statue was weirdly beautiful, the work of a dedicated master
sculptor. It was a figure, standing with five-fingered hands on hips,
head raised high. Not a portrait, but an image seen through other eyes
than human, standing high in the room with the lights burning reverently
at its feet.

Unmistakably it was the statue of a man.

       *       *       *       *       *

They heard the bombs, much later. The granite roof and floor of the
cavern trembled, and the men and women stared at each other, helpless
and sick as they huddled in that great hall. But presently the bombing
stopped. Later, when they stumbled out of that grotto into the late
afternoon light, the ship was gone.

They knew it would be back. Possibly it would bring back search parties
to hunt down the rebels in the hills; perhaps it would just wait and
again bomb out the new village when it rose. But searching parties would
never find their quarry, and the village would rise again and again, if
necessary.

And in the end, somehow, Pete knew that the colonists would find a way
to survive here and live free as they had always lived. It might be a
bitter struggle, but no matter how hard the fight, there would be one
strange and wonderful thing they could count on.

No matter what they had to do, he knew the Dusties would help them.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Image of the Gods, by Alan Edward Nourse

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IMAGE OF THE GODS ***

***** This file should be named 22882.txt or 22882.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/2/8/8/22882/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
