The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Blue Tower, by Evelyn E. Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Blue Tower

Author: Evelyn E. Smith

Release Date: October 20, 2007 [EBook #23104]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BLUE TOWER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net






THE

BLUE

TOWER



By EVELYN E. SMITH



_As the vastly advanced guardians
of mankind, the Belphins knew how
to make a lesson stick--but whom?_



Illustrated by DICK FRANCIS




Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Galaxy, February,
1958. Extensive research did not reveal any evidence that the U.S.
copyright on this publication was renewed.

Minor typographical errors have been corrected without note.




Ludovick Eversole sat in the golden sunshine outside his house, writing
a poem as he watched the street flow gently past him. There were very
few people on it, for he lived in a slow part of town, and those who
went in for travel generally preferred streets where the pace was
quicker.

Moreover, on a sultry spring afternoon like this one, there would be
few people wandering abroad. Most would be lying on sun-kissed white
beaches or in sun-drenched parks, or, for those who did not fancy being
either kissed or drenched by the sun, basking in the comfort of their
own air-conditioned villas.

Some would, like Ludovick, be writing poems; others composing
symphonies; still others painting pictures. Those who were without
creative talent or the inclination to indulge it would be relaxing
their well-kept golden bodies in whatever surroundings they had chosen
to spend this particular one of the perfect days that stretched in an
unbroken line before every member of the human race from the cradle to
the crematorium.

Only the Belphins were much in evidence. Only the Belphins had duties
to perform. Only the Belphins worked.

Ludovick stretched his own well-kept golden body and rejoiced in the
knowing that he was a man and not a Belphin. Immediately afterward,
he was sorry for the heartless thought. Didn't the Belphins work only
to serve humanity? How ungrateful, then, it was to gloat over them!
Besides, he comforted himself, probably, if the truth were known, the
Belphins _liked_ to work. He hailed a passing Belphin for assurance on
this point.

Courteous, like all members of his species, the creature leaped from
the street and listened attentively to the young man's question. "We
Belphins have but one like and one dislike," he replied. "We like what
is right and we dislike what is wrong."

"But how can you tell what is right and what is wrong?" Ludovick
persisted.

"We _know_," the Belphin said, gazing reverently across the city to
the blue spire of the tower where The Belphin of Belphins dwelt, in
constant communication with every member of his race at all times,
or so they said. "That is why we were placed in charge of humanity.
Someday you, too, may advance to the point where you _know_, and we
shall return whence we came."

"But _who_ placed you in charge," Ludovick asked, "and whence _did_
you come?" Fearing he might seem motivated by vulgar curiosity, he
explained, "I am doing research for an epic poem."

                     *      *      *      *      *

A lifetime spent under their gentle guardianship had made Ludovick
able to interpret the expression that flitted across this Belphin's
frontispiece as a sad, sweet smile.

"We come from beyond the stars," he said. Ludovick already knew that;
he had hoped for something a little more specific. "We were placed in
power by those who had the right. And the power through which we rule
is the power of love! Be happy!"

And with that conventional farewell (which also served as a greeting),
he stepped onto the sidewalk and was borne off. Ludovick looked after
him pensively for a moment, then shrugged. Why _should_ the Belphins
surrender their secrets to gratify the idle curiosity of a poet?

Ludovick packed his portable scriptwriter in its case and went to call
on the girl next door, whom he loved with a deep and intermittently
requited passion.

As he passed between the tall columns leading into the Flockhart
courtyard, he noted with regret that there were quite a number of
Corisande's relatives present, lying about sunning themselves and
sipping beverages which probably touched the legal limit of
intoxicatability.

Much as he hated to think harshly of anyone, he did not like Corisande
Flockhart's relatives. He had never known anybody who had as many
relatives as she did, and sometimes he suspected they were not all
related to her. Then he would dismiss the thought as unworthy of him or
any right-thinking human being. He loved Corisande for herself alone
and not for her family. Whether they were actually her family or not
was none of his business.

"Be happy!" he greeted the assemblage cordially, sitting down beside
Corisande on the tessellated pavement.

"Bah!" said old Osmond Flockhart, Corisande's grandfather. Ludovick was
sure that, underneath his crustiness, the gnarled patriarch hid a heart
of gold. Although he had been mining assiduously, the young man had not
yet been able to strike that vein; however, he did not give up hope,
for not giving up hope was one of the principles that his wise old
Belphin teacher had inculcated in him. Other principles were to lead
the good life and keep healthy.

"Now, Grandfather," Corisande said, "no matter what your politics, that
does not excuse impoliteness."

Ludovick wished she would not allude so blatantly to politics, because
he had a lurking notion that Corisande's "family" was, in fact, a band
of conspirators ... such as still dotted the green and pleasant planet
and proved by their existence that Man was not advancing anywhere
within measurable distance of that totality of knowledge implied by
the Belphin.

You could tell malcontents, even if they did not voice their
dissatisfactions, by their faces. The vast majority of the human race,
living good and happy lives, had smooth and pleasant faces. Malcontents'
faces were lined and sometimes, in extreme cases, furrowed. Everyone
could easily tell who they were by looking at them, and most people
avoided them.

                     *      *      *      *      *

It was not that griping was illegal, for the Belphins permitted free
speech and reasonable conspiracy; it was that such behavior was
considered ungenteel. Ludovick would never have dreamed of associating
with this set of neighbors, once he had discovered their tendencies,
had he not lost his heart to the purple-eyed Corisande at their first
meeting.

"Politeness, bah!" old Osmond said. "To see a healthy young man
simply--simply accepting the status quo!"

"If the status quo is a good status quo," Ludovick said uneasily, for
he did not like to discuss such subjects, "why should I not accept it?
We have everything we could possibly want. What do we lack?"

"Our freedom," Osmond retorted.

"But we _are_ free," Ludovick said, perplexed. "We can say what we
like, do what we like, so long as it is consonant with the public
good."

"Ah, but who determines what is consonant with the public good?"

Ludovick could no longer temporize with truth, even for Corisande's
sake. "Look here, old man, I have read books. I know about the old days
before the Belphins came from the stars. Men were destroying themselves
quickly through wars, or slowly through want. There is none of that any
more."

"All lies and exaggeration," old Osmond said. "_My_ grandfather told me
that, when the Belphins took over Earth, they rewrote all the textbooks
to suit their own purposes. Now nothing but Belphin propaganda is
taught in the schools."

"But surely some of what they teach about the past must be true,"
Ludovick insisted. "And today every one of us has enough to eat and
drink, a place to live, beautiful garments to wear, and all the time in
the world to utilize as he chooses in all sorts of pleasant activities.
What is missing?"

"They've taken away our frontiers!"

Behind his back, Corisande made a little filial face at Ludovick.

Ludovick tried to make the old man see reason. "But I'm happy. And
everybody is happy, except--except a few _killjoys_ like you."

"They certainly did a good job of brainwashing you, boy," Osmond
sighed. "And of most of the young ones," he added mournfully. "With
each succeeding generation, more of our heritage is lost." He patted
the girl's hand. "You're a good girl, Corrie. You don't hold with this
being cared for like some damn pet poodle."

"Never mind Osmond, Eversole," one of Corisande's alleged uncles
grinned. "He talks a lot, but of course he doesn't mean a quarter of
what he says. Come, have some wine."

                     *      *      *      *      *

He handed a glass to Ludovick. Ludovick sipped and coughed. It tasted
as if it were well above the legal alcohol limit, but he didn't like to
say anything. They were taking an awful risk, though, doing a thing
like that. If they got caught, they might receive a public
scolding--which was, of course, no more than they deserved--but he
could not bear to think of Corisande exposed to such an ordeal.

"It's only reasonable," the uncle went on, "that older people should
have a--a thing about being governed by foreigners."

Ludovick smiled and set his nearly full glass down on a plinth. "You
could hardly call the Belphins foreigners; they've been on Earth longer
than even the oldest of us."

"You seem to be pretty chummy with 'em," the uncle said, looking
narrow-eyed at Ludovick.

"No more so than any other loyal citizen," Ludovick replied.

The uncle sat up and wrapped his arms around his thick bare legs. He
was a powerful, hairy brute of a creature who had not taken advantage
of the numerous cosmetic techniques offered by the benevolent Belphins.
"Don't you think it's funny they can breathe our air so easily?"

"Why shouldn't they?" Ludovick bit into an apple that Corisande handed
him from one of the dishes of fruit and other delicacies strewn about
the courtyard. "It's excellent air," he continued through a full mouth,
"especially now that it's all purified. I understand that in the old
days----"

"Yes," the uncle said, "but don't you think it's a coincidence they
breathe exactly the same kind of air we do, considering they claim to
come from another solar system?"

"No coincidence at all," said Ludovick shortly, no longer able to
pretend he didn't know what the other was getting at. He had heard the
ugly rumor before. Of course sacrilege was not illegal, but it was in
bad taste. "Only one combination of elements spawns intelligent life."

"They say," the uncle continued, impervious to Ludovick's unconcealed
dislike for the subject, "that there's really only one Belphin, who
lives in the Blue Tower--in a tank or something, because he can't
breathe our atmosphere--and that the others are a sort of robot he
sends out to do his work for him."

"Nonsense!" Ludovick was goaded to irritation at last. "How could a
robot have that delicate play of expression, that subtle economy of
movement?"

Corisande and the uncle exchanged glances. "But they are absolutely
blank," the uncle began hesitantly. "Perhaps, with your rich poetic
imagination...."

"See?" old Osmond remarked with satisfaction. "The kid's brain-washed.
I told you so."

                     *      *      *      *      *

"Even if The Belphin is a single entity," Ludovick went on, "that
doesn't necessarily make him less benevolent----"

He was again interrupted by the grandfather. "I won't listen to any
more of this twaddle. Benevolent, bah! He or she or it or them is or
are just plain exploiting us! Taking our mineral resources away--I've
seen 'em loading ore on the spaceships--and----"

"--and exchanging it for other resources from the stars," Ludovick said
tightly, "without which we could not have the perfectly balanced
society we have today. Without which we would be, technologically, back
in the dark ages from which they rescued us."

"It's not the stuff they bring in from outside that runs this technology,"
the uncle said. "It's some power they've got that we can't seem to figure
out. Though Lord knows we've tried," he added musingly.

"Of course they have their own source of power," Ludovick informed
them, smiling to himself, for his old Belphin teacher had taken great
care to instill a sense of humor into him. "A Belphin was explaining
that to me only today."

Twenty heads swiveled toward him. He felt uncomfortable, for he was a
modest young man and did not like to be the cynosure of all eyes.

"Tell us, dear boy," the uncle said, grabbing Ludovick's glass from the
plinth and filling it, "what exactly did he say?"

"He said the Belphins rule through the power of love."

The glass crashed to the tesserae as the uncle uttered a very unworthy
word.

"And I suppose it was love that killed Mieczyslaw and George when they
tried to storm the Blue Tower----" old Osmond began, then halted at the
looks he was getting from everybody.

Ludovick could no longer pretend his neighbors were a group of eccentrics
whom he himself was eccentric enough to regard as charming.

"So!" He stood up and wrapped his mantle about him. "I knew you were
against the government, and, of course, you have a legal right to disagree
with its policies, but I didn't think you were actual--actual--" he
dredged a word up out of his schooldays--"_anarchists_."

[Illustration]

He turned to the girl, who was looking thoughtful as she stroked the
glittering jewel that always hung at her neck. "Corisande, how can you
stay with these--" he found another word--"these _subversives_?"

She smiled sadly. "Don't forget: they're my family, Ludovick, and I owe
them dutiful respect, no matter how pig-headed they are." She pressed
his hand. "But don't give up hope."

That rang a bell inside his brain. "I won't," he vowed, giving her hand
a return squeeze. "I promise I won't."

                     *      *      *      *      *

Outside the Flockhart villa, he paused, struggling with his inner self.
It was an unworthy thing to inform upon one's neighbors; on the other
hand, could he stand idly by and let those neighbors attempt to destroy
the social order? Deciding that the greater good was the more
important--and that, moreover, it was the only way of taking Corisande
away from all this--he went in search of a Belphin. That is, he waited
until one glided past and called to him to leave the walk.

"I wish to report a conspiracy at No. 7 Mimosa Lane," he said. "The
girl is innocent, but the others are in it to the hilt."

The Belphin appeared to think for a minute. Then he gave off a smile.
"Oh, them," he said. "We know. They are harmless."

"Harmless!" Ludovick repeated. "Why, I understand they've already tried
to--to attack the Blue Tower by _force_!"

"Quite. And failed. For we are protected from hostile forces, as you
were told earlier, by the power of love."

Ludovick knew, of course, that the Belphin used the word _love_
metaphorically, that the Tower was protected by a series of highly
efficient barriers of force to repel attackers--barriers which, he
realized now, from the sad fate of Mieczyslaw and George, were
potentially lethal. However, he did not blame the Belphin for being
so cagy about his race's source of power, not with people like the
Flockharts running about subverting and whatnot.

"You certainly do have a wonderful intercommunication system," he
murmured.

"Everything about us is wonderful," the Belphin said noncommittally.
"That's why we're so good to you people. Be happy!" And he was off.

But Ludovick could not be happy. He wasn't precisely sad yet, but he
was thoughtful. Of course the Belphins knew better than he did, but
still.... Perhaps they underestimated the seriousness of the Flockhart
conspiracy. On the other hand, perhaps it was he who was taking the
Flockharts too seriously. Maybe he should investigate further before
doing anything rash.

Later that night, he slipped over to the Flockhart villa and nosed
about in the courtyard until he found the window behind which the
family was conspiring. He peered through a chink in the curtains, so
he could both see and hear.

Corisande was saying, "And so I think there is a lot in what Ludovick
said...."

Bless her, he thought emotionally. Even in the midst of her plotting,
she had time to spare a kind word for him. And then it hit him: _she,
too, was a plotter_.

"You suggest that we try to turn the power of love against the Belphins?"
the uncle asked ironically.

Corisande gave a rippling laugh as she twirled her glittering pendant.
"In a manner of speaking," she said. "I have an idea for a secret
weapon which might do the trick----"

                     *      *      *      *      *

At that moment, Ludovick stumbled over a jug which some careless
relative had apparently left lying about the courtyard. It crashed to
the tesserae, spattering Ludovick's legs and sandals with a liquid
which later proved to be extremely red wine.

"There's someone outside!" the uncle declared, half-rising.

"Nonsense!" Corisande said, putting her hand on his shoulder. "I didn't
hear anything."

The uncle looked dubious, and Ludovick thought it prudent to withdraw
at this point. Besides, he had heard enough. Corisande--his Corisande--was
an integral part of the conspiracy.

He lay down to sleep that night beset by doubts. If he told the
Belphins about the conspiracy, he would be betraying Corisande. As a
matter of fact, he now remembered, he _had_ already told them about
the conspiracy and they hadn't believed him. But supposing he could
_convince_ them, how could he give Corisande up to them? True, it was
the right thing to do--but, for the first time in his life, he could
not bring himself to do what he knew to be right. He was weak, weak--and
weakness was sinful. His old Belphin teacher had taught him that, too.

As Ludovick writhed restlessly upon his bed, he became aware that
someone had come into his chamber.

"Ludovick," a soft, beloved voice whispered, "I have come to ask your
help...." It was so dark, he could not see her; he knew where she was
only by the glitter of the jewel on her neck-chain as it arced through
the blackness.

"Corisande...." he breathed.

"Ludovick...." she sighed.

Now that the amenities were over, she resumed, "Against my will, I have
been involved in the family plot. My uncle has invented a secret weapon
which he believes will counteract the power of the barriers."

"But I thought you devised it!"

"So it _was_ you in the courtyard. Well, what happened was I wanted to
gain time, so I said I had a secret weapon of my own invention which I
had not perfected, but which would cost considerably less than my
uncle's model. We have to watch the budget, you know, because we can
hardly expect the Belphins to supply the components for this job.
Anyhow, I thought that, while my folks were waiting for me to finish
it, you would have a chance to warn the Belphins."

"Corisande," he murmured, "you are as noble and clever as you are
beautiful."

                     *      *      *      *      *

Then he caught the full import of her remarks. "_Me!_ But they won't
pay any attention to me!"

"How do you know?" When he remained silent, she said, "I suppose you've
already tried to warn them about us."

"I--I said _you_ had nothing to do with the plot."

"That was good of you." She continued in a warmer tone: "How many
Belphins did you warn, then?"

"Just one. When you tell one something, you tell them all. You know
that. Everyone knows that."

"That's just theory," she said. "It's never been proven. All we do know
is that they have some sort of central clearing house of information,
presumably The Belphin of Belphins. But we don't know that they are
incapable of thinking or acting individually. We don't really know much
about them at all; they're very secretive."

"Aloof," he corrected her, "as befits a ruling race. But always
affable."

"You must warn as many Belphins as you can."

"And if none listens to me?"

"Then," she said dramatically, "you must approach The Belphin of
Belphins himself."

"But no human being has ever come near him!" he said plaintively. "You
know that all those who have tried perished. And that can't be a rumor,
because your grandfather said----"

"But they came to _attack_ The Belphin. You're coming to _warn_ him!
That makes a big difference. Ludovick...." She took his hands in hers;
in the darkness, the jewel swung madly on her presumably heaving bosom.
"This is bigger than both of us. It's for Earth."

He knew it was his patriotic duty to do as she said; still, he had
enjoyed life so much. "Corisande, wouldn't it be much simpler if we
just destroyed your uncle's secret weapon?"

"He'd only make another. Don't you see, Ludovick, this is our only
chance to save the Belphins, to save humanity.... But, of course, I
don't have the right to send you. I'll go myself."

"No, Corisande," he sighed. "I can't let you go. I'll do it."

                     *      *      *      *      *

Next morning, he set out to warn Belphins. He knew it wasn't much use,
but it was all he could do. The first half dozen responded in much the
same way the Belphin he had warned the previous day had done, by
courteously acknowledging his solicitude and assuring him there was no
need for alarm; they knew all about the Flockharts and everything would
be all right.

After that, they started to get increasingly huffy--which would, he
thought, substantiate the theory that they were all part of one vast
coordinate network of identity. Especially since each Belphin behaved
as if Ludovick had been repeatedly annoying _him_.

Finally, they refused to get off the walks when he hailed them--which
was unheard of, for no Belphin had ever before failed to respond to an
Earthman's call--and when he started running along the walks after
them, they ran much faster than he could.

At last he gave up and wandered about the city for hours, speaking to
neither human nor Belphin, wondering what to do. That is, he knew what
he had to do; he was wondering _how_ to do it. He would never be able
to reach The Belphin of Belphins. No human being had ever done it.
Mieczyslaw and George had died trying to reach him (or it). Even though
their intentions had been hostile and Ludovick's would be helpful,
there was little chance he would be allowed to reach The Belphin with
all the other Belphins against him. What guarantee was there that The
Belphin would not be against him, too?

And yet he knew that he would have to risk his life; there was no help
for it. He had never wanted to be a hero, and here he had heroism
thrust upon him. He knew he could not succeed; equally well, he knew he
could not turn back, for his Belphin teacher had instructed him in the
meaning of duty.

It was twilight when he approached the Blue Tower. Commending himself
to the Infinite Virtue, he entered. The Belphin at the reception desk
did not give off the customary smiling expression. In fact, he seemed
to radiate a curiously apprehensive aura.

"Go back, young man," he said. "You're not wanted here."

"I must see The Belphin of Belphins. I must warn him against the
Flockharts."

"He has been warned," the receptionist told him. "Go home and be
happy!"

"I don't trust you or your brothers. I must see The Belphin himself."

Suddenly this particular Belphin lost his commanding manners. He began
to wilt, insofar as so rigidly constructed a creature could go limp.
"Please, we've done so much for you. Do this for us."

"The Belphin of Belphins did things for us," Ludovick countered. "You
are all only his followers. How do I know you are _really_ following
him? How do I know you haven't turned against him?"

Without giving the creature a chance to answer, he strode forward.
The Belphin attempted to bar his way. Ludovick knew one Belphin was
a myriad times as strong as a human, so it was out of utter futility
that he struck.

The Belphin collapsed completely, flying apart in a welter of fragile
springs and gears. The fact was of some deeper significance, Ludovick
knew, but he was too numbed by his incredible success to be able to
think clearly. All he knew was that The Belphin would be able to
explain things to him.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Bells began to clash and clang. That meant the force barriers had gone
up. He could see the shimmering insubstance of the first one before
him. Squaring his shoulders, he charged it ... and walked right through.
He looked himself up and down. He was alive and entire.

Then the whole thing was a fraud; the barriers were not lethal--or
perhaps even actual. But what of Mieczyslaw? And George? And countless
rumored others? He would not let himself even try to think of them. He
would not let himself even try to think of anything save his duty.

A staircase spiraled up ahead of him. A Belphin was at its foot. Behind
him, a barrier iridesced.

"Please, young man----" the Belphin began. "You don't understand. Let
me explain."

But Ludovick destroyed the thing before it could say anything further,
and he passed right through the barrier. He had to get to the top and
warn The Belphin of Belphins, whoever or whatever he (or it) was, that
the Flockharts had a secret weapon which might be able to annihilate it
(or him). Belphin after Belphin Ludovick destroyed, and barrier after
barrier he penetrated until he reached the top. At the head of the
stairs was a vast golden door.

"Go no further, Ludovick Eversole!" a mighty voice roared from within.
"To open that door is to bring disaster upon your race."

But all Ludovick knew was that he had to get to The Belphin within and
warn him. He battered down the door; that is, he would have battered
down the door if it had not turned out to be unlocked. A stream of
noxious vapor rushed out of the opening, causing him to black out.

When he came to, most of the vapor had dissipated. The Belphin of
Belphins was already dying of asphyxiation, since it was, in fact, a
single alien entity who breathed another combination of elements. The
room at the head of the stairs had been its tank.

"You fool...." it gasped. "Through your muddle-headed integrity ... you
have destroyed not only me ... but Earth's future. I tried to make ...
this planet a better place for humanity ... and this is my reward...."

"But I don't understand!" Ludovick wept. "_Why_ did you let me do it?
Why were Mieczyslaw and George and all the others killed? Why was it
that I could pass the barriers and they could not?"

"The barriers were triggered ... to respond to hostility.... You meant
well ... so our defenses ... could not work." Ludovick had to bend low
to hear the creature's last words: "There is ... Earth proverb ...
should have warned me ... 'I can protect myself ... against my enemies
... but who will protect me ... from my friends'...?"

The Belphin of Belphins died in Ludovick's arms. He was the last of his
race, so far as Earth was concerned, for no more came. If, as they had
said themselves, some outside power had sent them to take care of the
human race, then that power had given up the race as a bad job. If they
were merely exploiting Earth, as the malcontents had kept suggesting,
apparently it had proven too dangerous or too costly a venture.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Shortly after The Belphin's demise, the Flockharts arrived en masse.
"We won't need your secret weapons now," Ludovick told them dully. "The
Belphin of Belphins is dead."

Corisande gave one of the rippling laughs he was to grow to hate so
much. "Darling, _you_ were my secret weapon all along!" She beamed at
her "relatives," and it was then he noticed the faint lines of her
forehead. "I told you I could use the power of love to destroy the
Belphins!" And then she added gently: "I think there is no doubt who
is head of 'this family' now."

The uncle gave a strained laugh. "You're going to have a great little
first lady there, boy," he said to Ludovick.

"First lady?" Ludovick repeated, still absorbed in his grief.

"Yes, I imagine the people will want to make you our first President by
popular acclaim."

Ludovick looked at him through a haze of tears. "But I killed The
Belphin. I didn't mean to, but ... they must hate me!"

"Nonsense, my boy; they'll adore you. You'll be a hero!"

Events proved him right. Even those people who had lived in apparent
content under the Belphins, accepting what they were given and
seemingly enjoying their carefree lives, now declared themselves to
have been suffering in silent resentment all along. They hurled flowers
and adulatory speeches at Ludovick and composed extremely flattering
songs about him.

Shortly after he was universally acclaimed President, he married
Corisande. He couldn't escape.

"Why doesn't she become President herself?" he wailed, when the relatives
came and found him hiding in the ruins of the Blue Tower. The people had
torn the Tower down as soon as they were sure The Belphin was dead and
the others thereby rendered inoperant. "It would spare her a lot of
bother."

"Because she is not The Belphin-slayer," the uncle said, dragging him
out. "Besides, she loves you. Come on, Ludovick, be a man." So they
hauled him off to the wedding and, amid much feasting, he was married
to Corisande.

                     *      *      *      *      *

He never drew another happy breath. In the first place, now that The
Belphin was dead, all the machinery that had been operated by him
stopped and no one knew how to fix it. The sidewalks stopped moving,
the air conditioners stopped conditioning, the food synthesizers
stopped synthesizing, and so on. And, of course, everybody blamed it
all on Ludovick--even that year's run of bad weather.

There were famines, riots, plagues, and, after the waves of mob hostility
had coalesced into national groupings, wars. It was like the old days
again, precisely as described in the textbooks.

In the second place, Ludovick could never forget that, when Corisande
had sent him to the Blue Tower, she could not have been sure that her
secret weapon would work. Love might _not_ have conquered all--in fact,
it was the more likely hypothesis that it wouldn't--and he would have
been killed by the first barrier. And no husband likes to think that
his wife thinks he's expendable; it makes him feel she doesn't really
love him.

So, in thirtieth year of his reign as Dictator of Earth, Ludovick
poisoned Corisande--that is, had her poisoned, for by now he had a
Minister of Assassination to handle such little matters--and married
a very pretty, very young, very affectionate blonde. He wasn't
particularly happy with her, either, but at least it was a change.


--EVELYN E. SMITH






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Blue Tower, by Evelyn E. Smith

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BLUE TOWER ***

***** This file should be named 23104.txt or 23104.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/3/1/0/23104/

Produced by Greg Weeks and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
