The Project Gutenberg EBook of In the Control Tower, by Will Mohler

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: In the Control Tower

Author: Will Mohler

Release Date: October 22, 2007 [EBook #23149]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IN THE CONTROL TOWER ***




Produced by Robert Cicconetti, Jeannie Howse and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







       *       *       *       *       *

    +-----------------------------------------------------------+
    | Transcriber's Note:                                       |
    |                                                           |
    | Inconsistent hyphenation in the original document has     |
    | been preserved.                                           |
    |                                                           |
    | Obvious typographical errors have been corrected. For     |
    | a complete list, please see the end of this document.     |
    |                                                           |
    | This etext was produced from Galaxy Science Fiction,      |
    | December 1963. Extensive research did not uncover any     |
    | evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication      |
    | was renewed.                                              |
    |                                                           |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------+

       *       *       *       *       *


[Illustration]




IN THE CONTROL TOWER

by WILL MOHLER

Illustrated by GIUNTA

          =Shadows haunted the dying alleys.
          Madness stalked the wide streets.
          And what lay at the city's heart?=




I


Dewforth had almost most lost the habit of looking from windows. The
train which took him to the city every morning passed through a
country in the terminal stages of a long war of self-destruction.
Whatever had been burned, botched, poisoned or exhausted in that
struggle had been filled along the right-of-way, among drifts of soot
and ground-mists of sulphurous smoke and chemical flatulence, to form
a long tedious mural--a parody of cloud-borne Asiatic hills,
precipitous and always so close to the tracks that their tops could
not be seen.

This was almost merciful, considering what had been done to the sky.
When the train did not sneak between hills of slag, cinders, rubbish,
garbage, dross and the bloody brown carrion of broken machinery, it
shot like a bolt in the groove of an arbolest between unbroken
barriers of advertising or through deep concrete troughs and roaring
tunnels full of grimy light and grubby air.

There was one inconsistancy in this scheme of things: Just as the
train emerged from a deep valley of slag-hills and swung into a long
curve, passengers on the left side had a panoramic view of the city--a
frozen scene of battle between geometrical monsters, made remote and
obscure by the dust of a thousand thousand merely human struggles, too
small to be visible from the crusty windows of the train by the merely
human eye. They had about one second in which to absorb this vision of
corporate purpose. Then they were plunging into a final stretch of
tunnel to the center of the city itself, where no surface was ever
more than fifteen paces away and where there were no horizons at all.

Dewforth was excited by this view even though it reached him in a
fragmentary and subliminal way. Day after day he told himself that he
would have all his faculties at the ready before the train swung into
the curve. But morning after morning he was still emerging from the
stale fumes of the preceding night's beer, or he allowed himself to be
hypnotized by the sound of the wheels or fascinated by the jiggling of
another passenger's earlobe at that critical moment. The train had
always entered the clangorous colon of the city before this resolve
could crystallize in his mind, and he was left with an impression
which lay somewhere in the scale of reality between the after-image of
a light bulb and the morning memory of a fever-dream. He could never
have described the scene except in loose generalities about buildings
of contrasting height and unemphatic color.

       *       *       *       *       *

The single memorable feature of the panorama, looming above the rest,
was not even a building. It eluded all familiar categories. It was,
like the other components of the picture, rectangular; but it was a
displaced rectangle. A shining thread of morning sky could be seen
beneath it. It was only logical to suppose that it stood on legs of
some kind--a complicated process of girders. The upper part appeared
to be made of corrugated metal, but, as with the matter of the legs,
it was impossible to separate what was actually seen and what was
merely inferred. The only other structures Dewforth had seen which
resembled it at all were water towers and shipyard cranes, but these
had been mere toys compared with the thing that hovered over the
center of the city.

Its purpose could not be guessed, but what disturbed Dewforth more was
the fact that he could not be sure that it existed. He was a precision
draftsman, more or less resigned to deteriorating eyesight, and his
usual abstracted state of mind during that segment of his day had also
to be considered. He hoped that someone else would mention the
structure. Once--only once--a man sitting on the opposite seat had
made a comment which could have applied to it. "It turned," he said,
just as the tunnel swallowed the train.

Dewforth would have liked to ask the other passenger what he had
meant. Had he seen the same thing? Had he seen anything at all? And
what had he meant by "turned"?

But he had not asked. The other had been not merely forbidding, not
merely repugnant, but alternately forbidding and repugnant--in
daylight, an impeccable burgher sitting tall and righteous under a
tall hat; in tunnels, a hunchbacked gargoyle picking its nose in the
fickle darkness.

If Dewforth had been the only passenger on the train, or indeed the
last man in the world, he could not have been more alone with his
wonder. You did not ask whimsical questions of strangers nowadays. You
did not ask many questions of friends. All uncertainties incubated in
private darkness; they lived and grew and even put forth new
appendages.

Not a building. Not a water tank. Not a crane. Perhaps it was only an
illusion.

Illusion or not, it wanted a name so that it might be at least
catalogued in his own mind. Therefore, on a morning since forgotten
and for reasons never closely examined, he decided to call it The
Control Tower.




II


There was an unholy Friday restlessness upon Dewforth. To make matters
worse, it was the last Friday in March. Logically, perhaps, this
should not have made any difference because Dewforth worked in one of
a number of identical windowless rooms in a building from which all
natural rhythms had been rigorously excluded. From skylights high in
the ceilings of the drafting rooms came a light which had been
pasteurized and was timeless. It could have been artificial.

His work provided no refuge for his thought. It was demanding, but
only mechanically so. Strictly speaking, he did not know what he was
doing. No one did, apparently. He did not have the satisfaction of
knowing that what he did was real. He filled large sheets of plastic
with tracings of intricate, interconnected schematic hieroglyphs. But
he knew that in another place a template would be laid over his work.
An irregular portion like a piece of a jigsaw puzzle would be cut out
of it and the rest, perhaps more than half of his work, would be
destroyed.

It was even possible that all of it was destroyed.

Dewforth worked for a firm which made components. Of what, no one
said, no one asked. _Components, Inc._, the firm was called. He knew
that the finished products were small, heavy and very complicated.
Their names were mute combinations of letters and numbers, joined by
hyphens or separated by virgules. Some said that these components
performed no functions. Others said that they worked, but their
operations corresponded to no known human need. It was known that some
of the finished products themselves were destroyed. Some maintained
that they were dissolved in vats of hydrofluoric acid. Others argued
that they were encased in cement, then taken out to sea in speedboats
on moonless nights and jettisoned. The favorite rumor was that the
entire firm was a decoy to bewilder agents of foreign powers and
pre-empt their espionage efforts. There was neither proof of this nor
evidence to the contrary.

The penalty for circulating this last rumor was immediate dismissal
with prejudice.

In another place, another time, Dewforth might have spread the burden
of his mood by confiding in other workers, but not under the
circumstances so painstakingly arranged by _Components, Inc._ in the
interest of what was called _The Inter-loathing Index_, or I.I. It was
an axiom of modern industry that a high I.I. meant high productivity
and also tighter security. The latter was as much the measure of the
importance of an industry as what it made or how much. That there was
design in the egg-box compartmentation of workspaces, for example, was
obvious enough. Less overt were the lengths to which Personnel had
gone to discourage the exchange of information, or confidences, among
employees.

Under the guise of aptitude testing, the psychologists had been able
to select and organize teams consisting entirely of mutually
incompatible individuals. So well had they succeeded that most workers
could barely stand the sight of one another, and so were driven back
upon themselves and their work. Only by practicing an almost egg-like
self-containment could a draftsman or other worker hope to get through
the day without open conflict and disaster.

Latent antipathies among workers were further intensified by means of
the Annual Proficiency Competitions. At the conclusion of these tests
all employees save two were given Proficiency Stars. Of the remaining
two, one was invariably a person who had shown signs of becoming too
popular among his fellows. He was given a Leadership Star, and because
an affable man was usually less rather than more efficient than the
rest, this made of him a lonely little air-bubble in a sea of
resentment.

The second of the two workers was always discharged. Thus a dash of
anxiety was added to the proceedings.

       *       *       *       *       *

The visible manifestations of high I.I. were hectic color, a
characteristic ferocity of eye and throbbing jaw-hinges. Often the
jaw-hinges of an entire team would be pulsating at once, sometimes
even in unison. This spectacle emanated an overwhelming feeling of
earnestness and purpose. Executives were fond of pointing out this
phenomenon to visiting dignitaries. "Observe their jaw-hinges," they
would say.

Another factor which isolated employees from one another was the
peculiarly virulent form of halitosis which afflicted all workers
without exception. The company cafeteria was the source of this
malady.

Thus, if Dewforth had been the only employee in that vast complex of
buildings, or in the world, he could not have been restlessness. Add
to this the fact that it had been his misfortune to win the Leadership
Star in the Proficiency Competitions only three days earlier. He did
not have to trace the bitter stream of his mood any farther back than
that to find the bile-source.

The object of the contest had been to draw a single line 28-5/8 inches
long and 1/15,000 of an inch thick, a feat which is starkly simple in
conception but only theoretically feasible. The draftsmen had spent
hours preparing the surfaces of paper, straining ink through filters,
honing drawing pens with emery and polishing them with rouge, drawing
practice lines and scrutinizing them with powerful bench microscopes.
They did Balinese finger exercises, Chinese body coordination
exercises, Hindu breathing exercises and Tibetan spiritual
calisthenics to dispel their incipient shakes. When the great moment
came, a solemn little group of executives entered the drafting room
and stood about in attitudes of grave ceremonial courtesy.

The draftsmen then drew their lines.

When it was over, the judges examined and graded the lines and the
scores were announced by Mr. Shrank, the foreman. The better scores
prompted little flutters of restrained applause from the executives.
This moist and muted sound had reminded Dewforth of a hippopotamus
venting its wind under water, and in a moment of thoughtless
exhilaration he had even thought of sharing this bizarre notion with
his wife. He never did so, as it happened.

       *       *       *       *       *

Why had he ever told his wife about that wretched Leadership Star? Her
laughter persisted through his dreams, or through his dream. He only
had one. In this dream she was always a massive machine which ingested
songbirds between steel rollers and stamped them into pipe-flange
gaskets at a rate of one hundred and twenty per minute.

And the prize-winning line he had drawn--it revealed its true nature
in the perspective of days. There was no mistaking what it was. It was
The Abyss. It could widen and it could engulf. How much light would a
Leadership Star cast in that bottomless inkiness?

Acute restless had the effect of sending Dewforth frequently to the
lavatory, not so much for physiological reasons as because there was
no other place to go and he had to go somewhere when the white walls
of the drafting room threatened to crush him. He went as often as he
thought he could without attracting the attention of Mr. Shrank or
eliciting ponderous jocosities from the other workers. After several
visits, however, he did begin to question himself. What drew him to
that bleak refuge again and again? He was not aware of bladder
irritation. He had no infantile obsession about such facilities. Was
he driven by an aggregation of petty forces, each too small to make
sense by itself? Or was there one reason hiding behind a cloud of
small rationalizations? There was a difference in the air in the
lavatory, and in the sound--the undifferentiated background sound
which came from nowhere. Nowhere?

It came through a window.

He had been staring at a window--probably the only one in the
building--and it had failed to register on his mind at the time
because he had not expected it to be there. It was not part of the
habitual pattern. He had seen a window. He had, moreover, looked
through a window. What had he seen? He thought about this, and at the
same time he thought about being sick--administratively sick. He
succeeded in working up a palpable fever and a windy yawning beneath
the diaphragm. Before taking any action he would have to confirm what
he had seen through the window of the lavatory.

On his last trip to the lavatory he climbed up onto the slippery
washbasin and looked through the high window. His position there would
be impossible to explain, of course, if anyone should come in. He was
past caring about that. The unpasteurized air made him a little drunk
and the sound--the immense distant sighing groan like a giant's
whisper--filled his brain. It made him want to expand to meet it
somehow.

Only one immense skeleton foot was visible, but there was no question
about exactly what it was.

No conventional structure would curve upward in that way. There was no
point of reference by which to determine how far away it was, and the
air was blue with haze, giving everything an appearance of remoteness
and of unreality. He had never seen the city from that angle before,
but if what he saw was what he thought it was, how could it have been
so close without his knowing about it before this time? It was a thing
which belonged to vast distances--spatial distances and other kinds of
distance as well. Now it was close, or he was closer to it than he had
ever imagined he would be in his life.

It was accessible.

Dewforth left at half past three when the somnolence of afternoon was
heaviest on the heads of the other draftsmen. He did not speak to Mr.
Shrank about it. He did not clear with Miss Plock in the dispensary,
nor with Mr. Fert in Personnel, nor with Miss Yurt in Wage
Readjustment, nor with Miss Bort in Sick Leave Subdivision, nor with
Miss Vibe in Special Problems, nor with Mr. Pfister in Sick Claims,
nor with Miss Grope in Employee Grievances, nor with Miss Rupnick in
Company Grievances, nor with Miss Guggward in Allowance Reductions,
nor with Mr. Droon in Privilege Curtailment, nor with Miss Tremulo in
Psychological Counseling, nor with Dr. Schreck in Spiritual Aid
Subdiv.

He did not even trouble to see Miss Nosemilker who kept the time book.

He just left.




III


"Nobody goes up there," said the hulking oyster-eyed man in the burlap
overcoat.

The bum's eyes cleared long enough for him to peer into Dewforth's
eyes in order to see if his madness was worth sharing, then they
filmed over again as he decided that it was not.

Dewforth crowded past him and walked on. He was making real progress.
He had at last found someone who acknowledged that there was something
up there above eye-level. The others--old lost children, figures of
scab and grime--had been unaware of anything but inner cavities of
craving and fear above the sidewalk firmament of trodden gum disks,
sputum stars and the ends of twice-smoked cigarettes.

He could not have lost sight of the Control Tower. He had never
realized what streets were. Before that time he had known a single
well policed block between the station and his place of work. He still
thought of streets as more or less open strips along which people
moved, north or south, east or west, purposefully from Point A to
Point B with perhaps one right-angle turn, two at the most, pausing
only to tip hats or look into shop windows. Now it developed that
streets were sewers, battlegrounds, lairs, abattoirs, cesspools,
lazarettes, midways of deformity and brawling markets where nightmares
and spirochetes were sold.

The city had not less than three dimensions. He had not been fully
prepared for the implications of this, either. Existence in three
dimensions does not necessarily mean three-dimensional vision. The sky
was not visible through the maze of girders, stairways and catwalks
overhead. Dewforth tried to orient himself by the direction of
shadows, but this was misleading. It was the heart of the shadow
district, and the play of shadows was the order of things. The rules
were the rules of phantoms. Flesh lived there in subjection. Long
miscegenation with shadow had made phantoms of them all and endowed
all shadows with the menace of the real. Everything was equivocal as
hell.

Dewforth wandered in a cavern without walls. He saw bulky overcoats
with defeated hats or defeated heads; long-legged dwarfs in black
leather jackets; willowy chorus-boys with platinum ringlets, waiting
in their niches for the gift of violence; scuttling trolls with
horse-blanket jackets and alpine hats; deposed patriarchs under the
small shelter of black derbies, hiding from persecution behind the
Spanish moss of consolidated beards; headless things and thingless
heads, importuning, threatening, watching or just standing there,
those that were able.

In his search for a way out of the darkness, he was obliged to turn
back time and again. If gangs of shadows fought with knives at the end
of a street which had at first looked promising, what business had
shadows cursing or screaming or bleeding? If the madman who enjoined
the mob to fight in the service of nothingness was only a mouse
dancing on a summit of garbage, why did they cheer? At the end of
still another street, a mass rape may not have been in progress; the
participants may not have waited sullenly in a long line; a
macrocephalic gnome in a plaid suit may not actually have moved up and
down the line selling tickets at a reduced rate and explaining that
the outrage had been in progress since the preceding Christmas Eve:
but why was the unreality so consistant?

And if no one was in fact being ravaged, why did everyone look as
though they had been?

       *       *       *       *       *

All these spectacles tested Dewforth's courage, but they dimmed his
resolve not at all. At last he found a deserted street. He followed
it and he was rewarded with encouraging signs. There was more birdlime
underfoot, and the inhuman yammering of the streets was replaced with
echoing silence, and that silence was invaded by the sound--the voice
of the colossus, remote and terrible.

Dewforth asked directions again, this time of a pear-shaped figure
which may or may not have had legs and which sat in the mouth of an
iron cave and smoked what appeared to be a twist of hemp. "Where...."
Dewforth began.

"Nobody goes up there," the hemp-smoker answered without looking up at
him.

"Where do they come down, then," asked Dewforth, trying a new approach
but with little hope. There was a long pause. The pear-shaped man
didn't have arms either, Dewforth noticed. Hands, but no arms.

"Well now, some got it, some ain't," he said.

"How's that?" asked Dewforth. The pear blew out a cloud of smoke,
sulphurous, with viscous strings through it. "I knowed a guy caught it
from a drinking glass once."

This dialogue might have gone on much longer if Dewforth had not just
then noticed that his noninformer was sitting on the bottom step of a
long, dark stairway which led up and up into a jungle of lacy girders
and shadows above them.

He did not bother kicking the pear-shaped man. He stepped over him and
ran up the stairs two at a time. His footsteps rang on the iron stairs
and carried through the structure. It sounded like the bells of a
sunken cathedral ringing in the tide.

On the second level there was more light and more air. It was colder.
There were loiterers on the second level too, but these were far from
menacing. They clung to things and pressed themselves against things,
and they stared with unfocused eyes at something which had been there
before but was not there now. These men seemed to be wearing greasy
fezzes and dark, baggy long underwear with buttons and vestigial
lapels. As he approached them, Dewforth saw that the fezzes were
actually felt hats with the brims atrophied or rotted away, and the
funereal long-johns were the weatherbeaten remains of those suits
which are designed for Young Men On The Way Up. As though by tacit
agreement of long standing, these men did not look directly at
Dewforth as he passed, nor he at them.

There was no difficulty about finding a stairway to the next level,
but there was a rusty chain across the entrance.

Dewforth's foot caught in this chain as he stepped over it, and it
shattered like a chain of stale pretzels. There were no more people
beyond the second level--none that could be seen.

He soon lost count of levels. Stairs became narrower and more heavily
encrusted with birdlime and rust as he ascended. In some places there
were long sweeping ramps which led to blind sacs or reached out
unsupported into space, and he was forced to retrace his steps. At no
time did he look down, even when it was possible. There were usually
high barriers along the platforms and ramps. These were covered with
layers of old advertising posters which peeled and were torn by the
wind, revealing still more ancient posters underneath. They seemed to
have grown there by themselves like lichen. It seemed entirely
reasonable to Dewforth that the writing on the older posters
underneath was runic or demotic and the faces were ochre-stained
skulls, but his impulse was to hurry past and not study them too
closely.

       *       *       *       *       *

At last he found a long steep ladder running up the outside of one of
the legs of the Control Tower. Only huge slowly circling birds and
low-flying clouds came between him and the underside of the control
house at the top of the structure. Before beginning the climb he
admonished himself not to look down and not to ponder what he was
doing. In order to keep climbing, however, he had to keep admonishing
himself, thereby only reminding himself to look down and to ponder, to
the detriment of his equilibrium and confidence. Was it vertigo, or
did the ladder or the Tower itself sway in the singing wind? Who was
to say that the earth itself did not heave like fermenting mash? Was
any object inherently more solid than any other object? What was
"stability"?

When he looked down at the city he could not pick out the building in
which he had worked. There was nothing in any feature of the
landscape. Nothing. If his position, clinging to a girder high above
the city, made no sense, it did not make less sense than the position
of a man, or a Dewforth, sitting in a blind cell among thousands of
other blind cells down there, drawing tiny lines. Nothing bound him to
the drafting room nor even to the Dewforth of the drafting room--not
so much as a spider web or a shaft of light. The light pointed to
itself. The wind got under his shirt and chilled his navel, a
poignant reminder of disconnectedness.

An eagle glided close and screamed at him. It was like the laughter of
his wife. He resumed his climb, looking down no more.

The last few yards of the climb were the worst. Some bolts holding the
ladder in place were shapeless little masses of rust. The eleventh
rung from the top broke under his weight, and for the last ten steps
he had to lighten his body by means of a technique of autosuggestion
and will-projection which he invented on the spot, demonstrating what
could be done under pressure of extreme necessity. He could see above
his head a tiny balcony not more than a yard square, at which the
ladder terminated. The floor of this balcony appeared to be made of
long, weatherbeaten cigars which reason told him were badly corroded
iron bars. Reason also told him that there would be a door there.

He could not see a door through the skeleton floor of the balcony, but
the idea that there would not be a door there was, under the
circumstances, insupportable. There would be a door, he told himself
as he made his way upwards by means of levitation and the most
tentative of steps. It would probably have an inhospitable sign on
it--NO TRESPASSING, AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL ONLY, DANGER or perhaps HIGH
VOLTAGE. It might prove to be locked. If so, he would pound on it
until some one opened it, he decided.

There was even an outside possibility that no one would be inside. He
had never considered that possibility before that time. He decided
that it was not time to consider it now.

When Dewforth heaved himself up onto the small projecting platform he
felt the ladder give under his feet. It was not just another rung. He
saw the entire ladder go curling away into the emptiness like a huge
broken spring. Then he lay on the platform face down with his eyes
closed, fingers clutching the sill of the door, for a long time.

New sounds invaded his personal darkness as he lay there. He heard
bells, buzzers, klaxons, whistles and slamming relays. There were
voices from loudspeakers--imperious and hopeless, angry and feeble,
impassioned and monotonous, arrogant and anguished--in a synthetic
language made up of odd phonemes long since discarded from a thousand
other languages. When he looked up he saw no door but only a rectangle
of darkness with erratic flashes of colored light.

Having no choice, he entered on his hands and knees.




IV


Dewforth wandered in a labyrinth of control panels which reached
almost to the ceiling, but did not entirely shut out the light. This
light was like skimmed milk diffused in shadow. He reasoned that it
came from windows, but when he tried to remember whether the control
cab had windows he could not be sure. He had no visual image of
windows seen from the outside, but he had supposed that such an
edifice would hardly be blind. Somewhere beyond this maze of control
panels, he also reasoned, there must be an area like the bridge of an
enormous ship where the clamor of the bells, buzzers, klaxons and
whistles and the silent warnings and importunings of dials, gauges,
colored lights, ticker-tapes which spewed from metal mouths, the
palsied styles which scribbled on creeping scrolls, were somehow
collated and made meaningful, where the yammering loudspeakers could
be answered, and where the operators could look out and down and see
what they were doing.

Where were the operators?

The noise was deafening. Unlike the noise of machinery in a factory it
was not homogeneous. Each sound was intended to attract attention and
to evoke a certain response, but what response and from whom? Long
levers projecting from the steel deck wagged back and forth
spastically like the legs of monstrous insects struggling on their
backs. Several times Dewforth was temporarily blinded by an explosion
of blue light as a fuse blew or something short-circuited among the
rows of knife-switches and rheostats on the panels. One would never
really get used to the sporadic sound or to the lights. There was no
knowable pattern about them--about what they did or said. When he
closed his eyes and tried to compose himself the words _Out of
Control_ flashed red against the back of his eyelids, but he told
himself that this was foolish. How was one to adjudge a situation to
be Out of Control when one did not know what constituted control, over
what, or by whom? Furthermore, he rebuked himself, if the
panels--never mind how many or how forbidding--with their lights,
bells, buzzers, switches, relays, dials, gauges, styles, tapes,
pointers, rheostats and buttons had any meaning, and in fact if the
Tower itself had any meaning at all, that meaning was _Control_. How
arrogant it had been of him to imagine, even briefly, that because
he--a green intruder in that high place--had not immediately
comprehended what it was all about, the situation must be out of
control. _Absurd!_

       *       *       *       *       *

There were hundreds--perhaps thousands--of little labels attached to
the control panels, presumably indicating the functions of the
buttons, switches and other controls. Dewforth leaned close and
studied these, but found only mute combinations of letters and
numbers, joined by hyphens or separated by virgules.... They made him
feel somewhat more fragile, more round-shouldered and colder, but he
resisted despair. It was getting a little darker, though. The
skimmed-milk light above him was taking on a bluish tint. He had no
way of knowing how long he had wandered among the control panels. His
time-sense had always been dependent upon clocks and bells--and upon
the arrivals and departures of trains.

It was a sound which finally led Dewforth out of the maze of control
panels.

It was not a louder sound, not more emphatic, imperative or clear than
the others; it was formless, feeble and ineffably pathetic. It was
its utter incongruity which reached Dewforth through the robotic
clamor, and which touched him ... a mewing, as of a kitten trapped in
a closet.

It came, as he discovered, from The Operator.

He was quite alone among his levers, wheels, switches, buttons,
cranks, gauges, lights, bells, buzzers, horns, ticker-tapes, creeping
scrolls, barking loudspeakers and cryptic dials. Dewforth saw him
sharply silhouetted against a long window through which bluish-gray
light poured but through which nothing could be clearly seen from
where he stood. The Operator sat on a high, one-legged stool. His head
was drawn into his shoulders, which were crumpled things of birdlike
bones. His head was bald on top but the fringe was long and wild. He
had big simian ears set at right angles to his head and the light
shone through them, not pink but yellowish. There was an aureole of
fine hairs about them which gave them the appearance of angel's wings.
With enlarged hands at the ends of almost fleshless arms he clutched
at the knobs of rheostats and the cranks of transformers, hesitantly,
spasmodically, and without ever quite reaching anything. Each time he
withdrew his hands quickly as though he had been on the point of
touching something very hot. His arms might have been elongated by a
lifetime of such aborted movement.

Just as Dewforth began to wonder how his sudden appearance there would
affect the old man, feeble and distraught as he already was, the
Operator whirled on his stool and stared at Dewforth with eyes so
round, so huge and so terrified that the rest of his face was not
noticeable at all.

He shouted something that sounded like "_Huzzah!_" but almost
certainly was not, then stiffened, then fell to the steel deck with no
more fuss than a bag of corn-husks would have made, and died.

       *       *       *       *       *

One would think that a windowed control cab or wheelhouse atop the
loftiest structure in a city, or in an entire landscape, would afford
a man an Olympian view of the world below, and of its people and their
activities.

Dewforth must have believed this at one time, but he found that it was
not so. The entire lower portion of the windows was covered with thin
pages of typescript, mostly yellowed, dusty and curled at the
edges--orders, instructions, directives, memoranda, all _Urgent_, _For
Immediate Action_, _Important_, _Priority_, _On No Account_, or _At
All Costs_.

The texts of these orders, instructions, directives or memoranda
consisted of mute combinations of letters and numbers, joined by
hyphens or separated by virgules.

Through the upper portion of the windows Dewforth could just make out
the horizon and a narrow strip of darkening sky, which were silent and
which demanded nothing of him. Amid the continuing clamor of all the
signal devices, he tried to recapture the last utterance of the
Operator--the former Operator.

"_Huzzah!_" was out of the question. "_Who's there?_" or "_Who's
that?_" were more likely, but, as he thought of it, weren't "_Whose
what?_", "_What's where?_", "_Where's what?_" or even "_Who's where?_"
just as likely?

Of these possible last words, "_Who's where?_" echoed most
persistently in his memory.

Dewforth might have torn away the pages of meaningless orders and
looked down upon lights as darkness fell, but he did not.

Opaque as they were in form and content alike, there was something
reassuringly familiar in the lines of inane symbols. And they were all
that stood between him and the approaching tidal wave of night, and
beyond the night, the winter with its storms.

                                                    --WILL MOHLER

       *       *       *       *       *

    +-----------------------------------------------------------+
    | Typographical errors corrected in text:                   |
    |                                                           |
    | Page 139: "more efficient that the rest" replaced with    |
    |           "more efficient than the rest"                  |
    | Page 141: whispper replaced with whisper                  |
    | Page 141: disance replaced with distance                  |
    | Page 143: "the participants many not have waited"         |
    |           replaced with                                   |
    |           "the participants may not have waited"          |
    | Page 143: spectacle replaced with spectacles              |
    | Page 147: homogenous replaced with homogeneous            |
    | Page 149: "Where's what" replaced with "Where's what?"    |
    |                                                           |
    +-----------------------------------------------------------+

       *       *       *       *       *





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of In the Control Tower, by Will Mohler

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IN THE CONTROL TOWER ***

***** This file should be named 23149.txt or 23149.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/3/1/4/23149/

Produced by Robert Cicconetti, Jeannie Howse and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
