The Project Gutenberg EBook of With No Strings Attached, by 
Gordon Randall Garrett (AKA David Gordon)

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: With No Strings Attached

Author: Gordon Randall Garrett (AKA David Gordon)

Illustrator: Schelling

Release Date: October 26, 2007 [EBook #23198]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WITH NO STRINGS ATTACHED ***




Produced by Louise Hope, Greg Weeks and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net





  [Transcriber's Note:
  This story was published in _Analog_, February 1963. Extensive
  research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright
  on this publication was renewed.]




With No Strings Attached


  A man will always be willing to buy something he wants,
  and believes in, even if it is impossible,
  rather than something he believes is impossible. So ...
  sell him what he thinks he wants!

David Gordon

Illustrated by Schelling

  [Illustration]




The United States Submarine _Ambitious Brill_ slid smoothly into her
berth in the Brooklyn Navy Yard after far too many weeks at sea, as
far as her crew were concerned. After all the necessary preliminaries
had been waded through, the majority of that happy crew went ashore to
enjoy a well-earned and long-anticipated leave in the depths of the
brick-and-glass canyons of Gomorrah-on-the-Hudson.

The trip had been uneventful, in so far as nothing really dangerous
or exciting had happened. Nothing, indeed, that could even be called
out-of-the-way--except that there was more brass aboard than usual,
and that the entire trip had been made underwater with the exception
of one surfacing for a careful position check, in order to make sure
that the ship's instruments gave the same position as the stars gave.
They had. All was well.

That is not to say that the crew of the _Ambitious Brill_ were
entirely satisfied in their own minds about certain questions that had
been puzzling them. They weren't. But they knew better than to ask
questions, even among themselves. And they said nothing whatever when
they got ashore. But even the novices among submarine crews know that
while the nuclear-powered subs like _George Washington_, _Patrick
Henry_, or _Benjamin Franklin_ are perfectly capable of
circumnavigating the globe without coming up for air, such
performances are decidedly rare in a presumably Diesel-electric vessel
such as the U.S.S. _Ambitious Brill_. And those few members of the
crew who had seen what went on in the battery room were the most
secretive and the most puzzled of all. They, and they alone, knew that
some of the cells of the big battery that drove the ship's electric
motors had been removed to make room for a big, steel-clad box hardly
bigger than a foot locker, and that the rest of the battery hadn't
been used at all.

With no one aboard but the duty watch, and no one in the battery room
at all, Captain Dean Lacey felt no compunction whatever in saying, as
he gazed at the steel-clad, sealed box: "What a battery!"

The vessel's captain, Lieutenant Commander Newton Wayne, looked up
from the box into the Pentagon representative's face. "Yes, sir, it
is." His voice sounded as though his brain were trying to catch up
with it and hadn't quite succeeded. "This certainly puts us well ahead
of the Russians."

Captain Lacey returned the look. "How right you are, commander. This
means we can convert every ship in the Navy in a tenth the time we had
figured."

Then they both looked at the third man, a civilian.

He nodded complacently. "And at a tenth the cost, gentlemen," he said
mildly. "North American Carbide & Metals can produce these units
cheaply, and at a rate that will enable us to convert every ship in
the Navy within the year."

Captain Lacey shot a glance at Lieutenant Commander Wayne. "All this
is strictly Top Secret you understand."

"Yes, sir; I understand," said Wayne.

"Very well." He looked back at the civilian. "Are we ready,
Mr. Thorn?"

"Anytime you are, captain," the civilian said.

"Fine. You have your instructions, commander. Carry on."

"Aye, aye, sir," said Lieutenant Commander Wayne.

       *       *       *       *       *
   *       *       *       *       *

A little less than an hour later, Captain Lacey and Mr. Thorn were in
the dining room of one of the most exclusive clubs in New York. Most
clubs in New York are labeled as "exclusive" because they exclude
certain people who do not measure up to their standards of wealth.
A man who makes less than, say, one hundred thousand dollars a year
would not even qualify for scrutiny by the Executive Committee. There
is one club in Manhattan which reaches what is probably close to the
limit on that kind of exclusiveness: Members must be white,
Anglo-Saxon, Protestant Americans who can trace their ancestry as
white, Anglo-Saxon, Protestant Americans back at least as far as the
American Revolution _without exception_, and who are worth at least
ten millions, and who can show that the fortune came into the family
at least four generations back. No others need apply. It is said that
this club is not a very congenial one because the two members hate
each other.

The club in which Lacey and Thorn ate their dinner is not of that
sort. It is composed of military and naval officers and certain
civilian career men in the United States Government. These men are
professionals. Not one of them would ever resign from government
service. They are dedicated, heart, body, and soul to the United
States of America. The life, public and private, of every man Jack of
them is an open book to every other member. Of the three living men
who have held--and the one who at present holds--the title of
President of the United States, only one was a member of the club
before he held that high office.

As an exclusive club, they rank well above England's House of Peers
and just a shade below the College of Cardinals of the Roman Catholic
Church.

Captain Lacey was a member. Mr. Richard Thorn was not, but he was
among those few who qualify to be invited as guests. The carefully
guarded precincts of the club were among the very few in which these
two men could talk openly and at ease.

After the duck came the brandy, both men having declined dessert. And
over the brandy--that ultra-rare Five Star Hennessy which is
procurable only by certain people and is believed by many not to exist
at all--Captain Lacey finally asked the question that had been
bothering him for so long.

"Thorn," he said, "three months ago that battery didn't exist. I know
it and you know it. Who was the genius who invented it?"

Thorn smiled, and there was a subtle wryness in the smile. "Genius is
the word, I suppose. Now that the contracts with the Navy have been
signed, I can give you the straight story. But you're wrong in saying
that the thing didn't exist three months ago. It did. We just didn't
know about it, that's all."

Lacey raised his bushy, iron-gray eyebrows. "Oh? And how did it come
to the attention of North American Carbide & Metals?"

Thorn puffed out his cheeks and blew out his breath softly before he
began talking, as though he were composing his beginning sentences in
his mind. Then he said: "The first I heard about it was four months
ago. Considering what's happened since then, it seems a lot longer."
He inhaled deeply from his brandy snifter before continuing. "As head
of the development labs for NAC&M, I was asked to take part as a
witness to a demonstration that had been arranged through some of the
other officers of the company. It was to take place out on Salt Lake
Flats, where--"

       *       *       *       *       *
   *       *       *       *       *

It was to take place out on Salt Lake Flats, where there was no chance
of hanky-panky. Richard Thorn--who held a Ph.D. from one of the finest
technological colleges in the East, but who preferred to be addressed
as "Mister"--was in a bad mood. He had flown all the way out to Salt
Lake City after being given only a few hours notice, and then had been
bundled into a jeep furnished by the local sales office of NAC&M and
scooted off to the blinding gray-white glare of the Salt Flats. It was
hot and it was much too sunshiny for Thorn. But he had made the
arrangements for the test himself, so he couldn't argue or complain
too loudly. He could only complain mildly to himself that the business
office of the company, which had made the final arrangements, had, in
his opinion, been a little too much in a hurry to get the thing over
with. Thorn himself felt that the test could have at least waited
until the weather cooled off. The only consolation he had was that,
out here, the humidity was so low that he could stay fairly
comfortable in spite of the heat as long as there was plenty of
drinking water. He had made sure to bring plenty.

The cavalcade of vehicles arrived at the appointed spot--umpteen miles
from nowhere--and pulled up in a circle.

Thorn climbed out wearily and saw the man who called himself Sorensen
climb out of the second jeep.

From the first time he had seen him, Thorn had tagged Sorensen as an
Angry Old Man. Not that he was really getting old; he was still
somewhere on the brisk side of fifty. But he wore a perpetual scowl on
his face that looked as though it had been etched there by too many
years of frustration, and his voice always seemed to have an acid edge
to it, like that of an old man who has decided, after decades of
observation, that all men are fools. And yet Thorn thought he
occasionally caught a glimpse of mocking humor in the pale blue eyes.
He was lean and rather tall, with white hair that still showed traces
of blond, and he looked as Scandinavian as his name sounded. His
accent was pure Minnesota American.

As he climbed out of the jeep, Sorensen brought with him the Black
Suitcase.

Ever since he had first seen it, Thorn had thought of it as "the Black
Suitcase," and after he had seen some of the preliminary tests, he had
subconsciously put capitals to the words. But Richard Thorn was no
fool. Too many men had been suckered before, and he, Richard Thorn,
did not intend to be another sucker, no matter how impressed he might
be by the performance of an invention.

If this was a con game, it was going to have to be a good one to get
by Richard Thorn, Ph.D.

He walked across the few feet of hard, salt-white ground that
separated him from Sorensen standing beside the second jeep with the
Black Suitcase in his hand. It was obvious to anyone who watched the
way Sorensen handled the thing that it was heavy--seventy-five pounds
or better.

"Need any help?" Thorn asked, knowing what the answer would be.

"Nope," Sorensen said. "I can handle it."

The suitcase wasn't really black. It was a dark cordovan brown, made
even darker by long usage, which had added oily stains to the
well-used leather. But Thorn thought of it as the Black Suitcase
simply because it was the perfect example of the proverbial Little
Black Box--the box that Did Things. As a test question in an
examination, the Little Black Box performs a useful function. The
examiner draws a symbolic electronic circuit. Somewhere in the
circuit, instead of drawing the component that is supposed to be
there, he draws a Little Black Box. Then he defines the wave-form,
voltage, and amperage entering the circuit and defines whatever is
coming out. Question: What is in the Little Black Box?

Except in the simplest of cases, there is never an absolute answer.
The question is counted as correct if the student puts into the Little
Black Box a component or subcircuit which will produce the effect
desired. The value of the answer depends on the simplicity and
relative controllability of the component drawn in the place of the
Little Black Box.

Sorensen's Black Suitcase was still a problem to Thorn. He couldn't
quite figure out what was in it.

"Hotter'n Billy Blue Blazes!" Sorensen said as he put the Black
Suitcase down on the gleaming white ground. He grinned a little, which
dispelled for a moment his Angry Old Man expression, and said: "You
ready to go, Mr. Thorn?"

"I'm ready any time you are," Thorn said grumpily.

Sorensen looked at the NAC&M scientist sideways. "You don't sound any
happier'n I am, Mr. Thorn."

Thorn looked at him and thought he could see that flash of odd humor
in his light blue eyes. Thorn exhaled a heavy breath. "I'm no happier
than you are to be out in this heat. Let's get on with it."

Sorensen's chuckle sounded so out of place that Thorn was almost
startled. "You know the difference between you and me, Mr. Thorn?"
Sorensen asked. He didn't wait for an answer. "You think this test is
probably a waste of time. Me, on the other hand, I _know_ it is."

"Let's get on with it," Thorn repeated.

       *       *       *       *       *

It took two hours to set up the equipment, in spite of the fact that a
lot of the circuits had been prefabricated before the caravan had come
out from Salt Lake City. But Richard Thorn wanted to make certain that
all his data was both correct and recorded. Sorensen had nothing to do
but watch. He had no hand in setting up the equipment. He had brought
the Black Suitcase, and that was all he was going to be allowed to do.

From the top of the Black Suitcase projected two one-inch copper
electrodes, fourteen inches apart. The North American Carbide & Metals
technicians set up the circuits that were connected to the electrodes
without any help from Sorensen.

But just before they started to work, Sorensen said: "There's just one
thing I think you ought to warn those men about, Mr. Thorn."

"What's that?" Thorn asked.

"If any of 'em tries to open that suitcase, they're likely to get
blown sky high. And I don't want 'em getting funny with me, either."

He had his hand in his trouser pocket, and Thorn was suddenly quite
certain that the man was holding a revolver. He could see the outlines
against the cloth.

Thorn sighed. "Don't worry, Mr. Sorensen. We don't have any ulterior
designs on your invention." He did not add that the investigators of
NAC&M had already assumed that anyone who was asking one million
dollars for an invention which was, in effect, a pig in a poke, would
be expected to take drastic methods to protect his gadget. But there
would be no point in telling Sorensen that his protective efforts had
already been anticipated and that the technicians had already been
warned against touching the Black Suitcase any more than necessary to
connect the leads. Giving Sorensen that information might make him
even more touchy.

Thorn only hoped that the bomb, or whatever it was that Sorensen had
put in the suitcase, was well built, properly fused, and provided with
adequate safeties.

When everything was set up, Sorensen walked over to his device and
turned it on by shoving the blade of a heavy-duty switch into place.
"O.K.," he said.

One of the technicians began flipping other switches, and a bank of
ordinary incandescent light bulbs came on, four at a time. Finally
there were one hundred of them burning, each one a hundred-watt bulb
that glowed brightly but did not appear to be contributing much to the
general brightness of the Utah sun. The technicians checked their
recording voltmeters and ammeters and reported that, sure enough, some
ten kilowatts of power at a little less than one hundred fifteen volts
D.C. was coming from the Black Suitcase.

Sorensen and Thorn sat in the tent which had been erected to ward off
the sun's rays. They watched the lights shine.

       *       *       *       *       *
   *       *       *       *       *

One of the technicians came in, wiping his forehead with a big blue
bandana. "Well, there she goes. Mr. Sorensen, if that thing is
dangerous, hadn't we better back off a little way from it?"

"It isn't dangerous," Sorensen said. "Nothing's going to happen."

The technician looked unhappy. "Then I don't see why we couldn't've
tested the thing back in the shop. Would've been a lot easier there.
To say nothing of more comfortable."

Thorn lit a cigarette in silence.

Sorensen nodded and said, "Yes, Mr. Siegel, it would've been."

Siegel sat down on one of the camp stools and lit a cigarette.
"Mr. Sorensen," he asked in all innocence, "have you got a patent on
that battery?"

The humorous glint returned to Sorensen's eyes as he said, "Nope.
I didn't patent the battery in that suitcase. That's why I don't want
anybody fooling around with it."

"How come you don't patent it?" Siegel asked. "Nobody could steal it
if you patented it."

"Couldn't they?" Sorensen asked with a touch of acid in his voice. "Do
you know anything about batteries, Mr. Siegel?"

"A little. I'm not an expert on 'em, or anything like that. I'm an
electrician. But I know a little bit about 'em."

Sorensen nodded. "Then you should know, Mr. Siegel, that
battery-making is an art, not a science. You don't just stick a couple
of electrodes into a solution of electrolyte and consider that your
work is done. With the same two metals and the same electrolyte, you
could make batteries that would run the gamut from terrible to
excellent. Some of 'em, maybe, wouldn't hold a charge more than an
hour, while others would have a shelf-life, fully charged, of as much
as a year. Batteries don't work according to theory. If they did,
potassium chlorate would be a better depolarizer than manganese
dioxide, instead of the other way around. What you get out of a
voltaic cell depends on the composition and strength of the
electrolyte, the kind of depolarizer used, the shape of the
electrodes, the kind of surface they have, their arrangement and
spacing, and a hundred other little things."

"I've heard that," Siegel said.

       *       *       *       *       *
   *       *       *       *       *

  [Illustration]

Thorn smoked in silence. He had heard Sorensen's arguments before.
Sorensen didn't mind discussing his battery in the abstract, but he
was awfully close-mouthed when it came to talking about it in concrete
terms. He would talk about batteries-in-general, but not about
this-battery-in-particular.

Not that Thorn blamed him in the least. Sorensen was absolutely
correct in his statements about the state of the art of making voltaic
cells. If Sorensen had something new--and Thorn was almost totally
convinced that he did--then he was playing it smart by not trying to
patent it.

"Now then," Sorensen went on, "let's suppose that my battery is made
up of lead and lead dioxide plates in a sulfuric acid solution, except
that I've added a couple of trifling things and made a few small
changes in the physical structure of the plates. I'm not saying that's
what the battery is, mind you; I'm saying 'suppose'."

"O.K., suppose," said Siegel. "Couldn't you patent it?"

"What's to patent? The Pb-PbO_2-H_2SO_4 cell is about half as old as
the United States Patent Office itself. Can't patent that. Copper
oxide, maybe, as a depolarizer? Old hat; can't patent that. Laminated
plates, maybe? Nope. Can't patent that, either."

Siegel looked out at the hundred glowing light bulbs. "You mean you
can't patent it, even if it works a hundred times better than an
ordinary battery?"

"Hell, man," Sorensen said, "you can't patent performance! You've got
to patent something solid and concrete! Oh, I'll grant that a
top-notch patent attorney might be able to get me some kind of patent
on it, but I wouldn't trust its standing up in court if I had to try
to quash an infringement.

"Besides, even if I had an iron-bound patent, what good would it do
me? Ever hear of a patent pool?"

"No," said Siegel. "What's a patent pool?"

"I'll give you an example. If all the manufacturers of a single
product get together and agree to form a patent pool, it means that if
one company buys a patent, all of them can use it. Say the automobile
companies have one. That means that if you invent a radical new design
for an engine--one, maybe that would save them millions of
dollars--you'll be offered a few measly thousand for it. Why should
they offer more? _Where else are you going to sell it?_ If one company
gets it, they all get it. There's no competition, and if you refuse to
sell it at all, they just wait a few years until the patent runs out
and use it for free. That may take a little time, but a big industry
has plenty of time. They have a longer life span than human beings."

"North American Carbide & Metals," said Thorn quietly, "is not a
member of any patent pool, Mr. Sorensen."

"I know," Sorensen said agreeably. "Battery patents are trickier than
automotive machinery patents. That's why I'm doing this my way. I'm
not selling the gadget as such. I'm selling results. For one million
dollars, tax paid, I will agree to show your company how to build a
device that will turn out electric power at such-and-such a rate and
that will have so-and-so characteristics, just like it says in the
contract you read. I guarantee that it can be made at the price I
quote. That's all."

He looked back out at the bank of light bulbs. They were still
burning. They kept burning--

"... They kept burning for ten solid hours," said Thorn. "Then he went
out and shut off his battery."

Captain Lacey was scowling. "That's damned funny," he muttered.

"What is?" asked Thorn, wondering why the naval officer had
interrupted his story.

"What you've been telling me," Lacey said. "I'll swear I've heard--"
He stopped and snapped his fingers suddenly. "Sure! By golly!" He
stood up from the table. "Would you excuse me for a minute? I want to
see if a friend of mine is here. If he is, he has a story you ought to
hear. Damned funny coincidence." And he was off in a hurry, leaving
Thorn staring somewhat blankly after him.

Three minutes later, while Thorn was busily pouring himself a second
helping of Five-Star Hennessy, Captain Lacey returned to the table
with an army officer wearing the insignia of a bird colonel.

"Colonel Dower," the captain said, "I'd like you to meet a friend of
mine--Mr. Richard Thorn, the top research man with North American
Carbide & Metals. Mr. Thorn, this is Colonel Edward Dower." The men
shook hands. A third brandy snifter was brought and a gentleman's
potation was poured for the colonel.

"Ed," said Captain Lacey as soon as his fellow officer had inhaled a
goodly lungful of the heady fumes, "do you remember you were telling
me a couple of years ago about some test you were in on out in the
Mojave Desert?"

Colonel Dower frowned. "Test? Something to do with cars?"

"No, not that one. Something to do with a power supply."

"Power supply. Oh!" His frown faded and became a smile. "You mean the
crackpot with his little suitcase."

Thorn looked startled, and Captain Lacey said: "That's the one."

"Sure I remember," said the colonel. "What about it?"

"Oh, nothing," Lacey said with elaborate unconcern, "I just thought
Mr. Thorn, here, might like to hear the story--that is, if it isn't
classified."

Colonel Dower chuckled. "Nothing classified about it. Just another
crackpot inventor. Had a little suitcase that he claimed was a
marvelous new power source. Wanted a million dollars cash for it, tax
free, no strings attached, but he wouldn't show us what was in it. Not
really very interesting."

"Go ahead, colonel," said Thorn. "I'm interested. Really I am."

"Well, as I said, there's nothing much to it," the colonel said. "He
showed us a lot of impressive-looking stuff in his laboratory, but it
didn't mean a thing. He had this suitcase, as I told you. There were a
couple of thick copper electrodes coming out of the side of it, and he
claimed that they could be tapped for tremendous amounts of power.
Well, we listened, and we watched his demonstrations in the lab. He
ran some heavy-duty motors off it and a few other things like that.
I don't remember what all."

"And he wanted to sell it to you sight-unseen?" Thorn asked.

"That's right," said the colonel. "Well, actually, he wasn't trying to
sell it to the Army. As you know, we don't buy ideas; all we buy is
hardware, the equipment itself, or the components. But the company he
was trying to sell his gadget to wanted me to take a look at it as an
observer. I've had experience with that sort of thing, and they wanted
my opinion."

"I see," Thorn said. "What happened?"

"Well," said the colonel, "we wanted him to give us a demonstration
out in the Mojave Desert--"

       *       *       *       *       *

"... Out in the Mojave Desert?" the inventor asked. "Whatever for,
Colonel Dower?"

"We just want to make sure you haven't got any hidden power sources
hooked up to that suitcase of yours. We know a place out in the Mojave
where there aren't any power lines for miles. We'll pick the place."

The inventor frowned at him out of pale blue eyes. "Look." He gestured
at the suitcase sitting on the laboratory table. "You can see there's
nothing faked about that."

Colonel Dower shook his head. "You won't tell us what's in that
suitcase. All we know is that it's supposed to produce power. From
what? How? You won't tell us. Did you ever hear of the Keely Motor?"

"No. What was the Keely Motor?"

"Something along the lines of what you have here," the colonel said
dryly, "except that Keely at least had an explanation for where he was
getting his power. Back around 1874, a man named John Keely claimed he
had invented a wonderful new power source. He called it a breakthrough
in the field of perpetual motion. An undiscovered source of power, he
said, controlled by harmony. He had a machine in his lab which would
begin to turn a flywheel when he blew a chord on a harmonica. He could
stop it by blowing a sour note. He claimed that this power was all
around, but that it was easiest to get it out of water. He claimed
that a pint of his charged water would run a train from Philadelphia
to New York and back and only cost a tenth as much as coal."

The inventor folded his arms across his chest and looked grimly at
Colonel Dower. "I see. Go on."

"Well, he got some wealthy men interested. A lot of them invested
money--big money--in the Keely Motor Company. Every so often, he'd
bring them down to his lab and show them what progress he was making
and then tell them how much more money he needed. He always got them
to shell out, and he was living pretty high on the hog. He kept at it
for years. Finally, in the late nineties, _The Scientific American_
exposed the whole hoax. Keely died, and his lab was given a thorough
going over. It turned out that all his marvelous machines were run by
compressed air cleverly channeled through the floor and the legs of
tables."

"I see," repeated the inventor, narrowing his eyes. "And I suppose my
invention is run by compressed air?"

"I didn't say your invention was a phony," Colonel Dower said
placatingly. "I merely mentioned the Keely Motor to show you why we
want to test it out somewhere away from your laboratory. Are you
willing to go?"

"Any time you are, colonel."

A week or so later, they went out into the Mojave and set up the test.
The suitcase--

       *       *       *       *       *

"... The suitcase," said the colonel, "was connected up to a hundred
hundred-watt light bulbs. He let the thing run for ten hours before he
shut it off." He chuckled. "He never would let us look into that
suitcase. Naturally, we wouldn't buy a pig in a poke, as the saying
goes. We told him that any time we could be allowed to look at his
invention, we'd be glad to see him again. He left in a huff, and that
was the last we saw of him."

"How do you explain," Thorn said carefully, "the fact that his
suitcase _did_ run all those lights?"

The colonel chuckled again. "Hell, we had that figured out. He just
had a battery of some kind in the suitcase. No fancy gimmick for
deriving power from perpetual motion or anything like that. Nope. Just
a battery, that's all."

Captain Dean Lacey was grinning hugely.

Thorn said: "Tell me, colonel--what was this fellow's name?"

"Oh, I don't recall. Big, blond chap. Had a Swedish name--or maybe
Norwegian. Sanderson? No. Something like that, though."

"Sorensen?" Thorn asked.

"That's it! Sorensen! Do you know him?"

"We've done business with him," said Thorn dryly.

"He didn't palm his phony machine off on you, did he?" the colonel
asked with a light laugh.

"No, no," Thorn said. "Nobody sold us a battery disguised as a
perpetual motion device. Our relations with him have been quite
profitable, thank you."

"I'd say you still ought to watch him," said Colonel Dower. "Once a
con man, always a con man, is my belief."

Captain Lacey rubbed his hands together. "Ed, tell me something.
Didn't it ever occur to you that a battery which would do all that--a
battery which would hold a hundred kilowatt-hours of energy in a
suitcase would be worth the million he was asking for it?"

Colonel Dower looked startled. "Why ... why, no. The man was obviously
a phony. He wouldn't tell us what the power source was. He--" Colonel
Dower stopped. Then he set his jaw and went on. "Besides, if it were a
battery, why didn't he say so? A phony like that shouldn't be--" He
stopped again, looking at the naval officer.

Lacey was still grinning. "We have discovered, Ed," he said in an
almost sweet voice, "that Sorensen's battery will run a submarine."

"With all due respect to your rank and ability, captain," Thorn said,
"I have a feeling that you'd have been skeptical about any such story,
too."

"Oh, I'll admit that," Lacey said. "But I still would have been
impressed by the performance." Then he looked thoughtful. "But I must
admit that it lowers my opinion of your inventor to hear that he tells
all these cock-and-bull stories. Why not just come out with the
truth?"

"Evidently he'd learned something," Thorn said. "Let me tell you what
happened after the contracts had been signed--"

       *       *       *       *       *

... The contracts had been signed after a week of negotiation. Thorn
was, he admitted to himself, a little nervous. As soon as he had seen
the test out on Salt Flats, he had realized that Sorensen had
developed a battery that was worth every cent he had asked for it.
Thorn himself had pushed for the negotiations to get them through
without too much friction. A million bucks was a lot of loot, but
there was no chance of losing it, really. As Sorensen said, the
contract did not call for the delivery of a specific device, it called
for a device that would produce specific results. If Sorensen's device
didn't produce those results, or if they couldn't be duplicated by
Thorn after having had the device explained to him, then the contract
wasn't fulfilled, and the ambitious Mr. Sorensen wouldn't get any
million dollars.

Now the time had come to see what was inside that mysterious Little
Black Suitcase. Sorensen had obligingly brought the suitcase to the
main testing and development laboratory of North American Carbide &
Metals.

Sorensen put it on the lab table, but he didn't open it right away.
"Now I want you to understand, Mr. Thorn," he began, "that I, myself,
don't exactly know how this thing works. That is, I don't completely
understand what's going on inside there. I've built several of them,
and I can show you how to build them, but that doesn't mean I
understand them completely."

"That's not unusual in battery work," Thorn said. "We don't completely
understand what's going on in a lot of cells. As long as the thing
works according to the specifications in the contract, we'll be
satisfied."

"All right. Fine. But you're going to be surprised when you see what's
in here."

"I probably will. I've been expecting a surprise," Thorn said.

What he got was a _real_ surprise.

There was a small pressure tank of hydrogen inside--one of the little
ones that are sometimes used to fill toy balloons. There was a small
batch of electronic circuitry that looked as though it might be the
insides of an FM-AM radio.

All of the rest of the space was taken up by batteries.

And every single one of the cells was a familiar little cannister.
They were small, rechargeable nickel-cadmium cells, and every one bore
the trademark of North American Carbide & Metals!

One of the other men in the lab said: "What kind of a joke is this?"

"Do you mean, Mr. Sorensen," Thorn asked with controlled precision,
"that your million-dollar process is merely some kind of gimmickry
with our own batteries?"

"No," said Sorensen. "It's--"

"Wait a minute," said one of the others, "is it some kind of hydrogen
fuel cell?"

"In a way," Sorensen said. "Yes, in a way. It isn't as efficient as
I'd like, but it gets its power by converting hydrogen to helium.
I need those batteries to start the thing. After it gets going, these
leads here from the reactor cell keep the batteries charged. The--"

He was interrupted by five different voices all trying to speak at
once. He could hardly--

       *       *       *       *       *

"... He could hardly get a word in edgewise at first," said Thorn. He
was enjoying the look of shocked amazement on Colonel Dower's face.
"When Sorensen finally did get it explained, we still didn't know
much. But we built another one, and it worked as well as the one he
had. And the contract didn't specifically call for a battery. He had
us good, he did."

"Now wait--" Colonel Dower said. "You mean to say it wasn't a battery
after all?"

"Of course not."

"Then why all the folderol?"

"Colonel," Thorn said, "Sorensen patented that device nine years ago.
It only has eight years to run. But he couldn't get anyone at all to
believe that it would do what he said it would do. After years of
beating his head against a stone wall, years of trying to convince
people who wouldn't even look twice at his gadget, he decided to get
smart.

"He began to realize that 'everybody knew' that hydrogen fusion wasn't
that simple. It was his _theory_ that no one would listen to. As soon
as he told anyone that he had a hydrogen fusion device that could be
started with a handful of batteries and could be packed into a
suitcase, he was instantly dismissed as a nut.

"I did a little investigating after he gave us the full information on
what he had done. (Incidentally, he signed over the patent to us,
which was more than the contract called for, in return for a job with
our outfit, so that he could help develop the fusion device.)

"As I said, he finally got smart. If the theory was what was making
people give him the cold shoulder, he'd tell them nothing.

"You know the results of that, Colonel Dower. At least he got somebody
to test the machine. He managed to get somebody to look at what it
would do.

"But that wasn't enough. He didn't have, apparently, any legitimate
excuse for keeping it under wraps that way, so everyone was
suspicious."

"But why tell _you_ it was a battery?" asked Captain Lacey.

"That was probably suggested by Colonel Dower's reaction to the tests
he saw," Thorn said. "Somebody--I think it was George Gamow, but I'm
not certain--once said that just having a theory isn't enough; the
theory has to make sense.

"Well, Sorensen's theory of hydrogen fusion producing electric current
didn't make sense. It was _true_, but it didn't make sense.

"So he came up with a theory that _did_ make sense. If everyone wanted
to think it was 'nothing but a battery', then, by Heaven, he'd sell it
as a battery. And _that_, gentlemen, was a theory we were perfectly
willing to believe. It wasn't true, but it did make sense.

"As far as I was concerned, it was perfectly natural for a man who had
invented a new type of battery to keep it under wraps that way.

"Naturally, after we had invested a million dollars in the thing, we
_had_ to investigate it. It worked, and we had to find out why and
how."

"Naturally," said Colonel Dower, looking somewhat uncomfortable. "I
presume this is all under wraps, eh? What about the Russians? Couldn't
they get hold of the patent papers?"

"They could have," Thorn admitted, "but they didn't. They dismissed
him as a crackpot, too, if they heard about him at all. Certainly they
never requested a copy of his patent. The patent number is now top
secret, of course, and if anyone does write in for a copy, the Patent
Office will reply that there are temporarily no copies available. And
the FBI will find out who is making the request."

"Well," said Colonel Dower, "at least I'm glad to hear that I was not
the only one who didn't believe him."

Captain Lacey chuckled. "And Mr. Thorn here believed a lie."

"Only because it made more sense than the truth," Thorn said. "And,"
he added, "you shouldn't laugh, captain. Remember, we suckered the
Navy in almost the same way."

       *       *       *       *       *
   *       *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

Errata

could talk openly and at ease.  [final . missing]
Question: What is in the Little Black Box?  [: missing]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of With No Strings Attached, by 
Gordon Randall Garrett (AKA David Gordon)

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WITH NO STRINGS ATTACHED ***

***** This file should be named 23198.txt or 23198.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/3/1/9/23198/

Produced by Louise Hope, Greg Weeks and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
