The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Mississippi Saucer, by Frank Belknap Long

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Mississippi Saucer

Author: Frank Belknap Long

Release Date: November 20, 2007 [EBook #23568]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MISSISSIPPI SAUCER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Joel Schlosberg and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net





[Transcriber's Note:
This eBook was produced from _Weird Tales_, March 1951, pp. 26-36.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright
on this publication was renewed.]




_Something of the wonder that must have come to men
seeking magic in the sky in days long vanished._




The Mississippi Saucer




[Illustration]

*Heading by Jon Arfstrom*




_By Frank Belknap Long_


Jimmy watched the _Natchez Belle_ draw near, a shining eagerness in his
stare. He stood on the deck of the shantyboat, his toes sticking out of
his socks, his heart knocking against his ribs. Straight down the river
the big packet boat came, purpling the water with its shadow, its
smokestacks belching soot.

Jimmy had a wild talent for collecting things. He knew exactly how to
infuriate the captains without sticking out his neck. Up and down the
Father of Waters, from the bayous of Louisiana to the Great Sandy other
little shantyboat boys envied Jimmy and tried hard to imitate him.

But Jimmy had a very special gift, a genius for pantomime. He'd wait
until there was a glimmer of red flame on the river and small objects
stood out with a startling clarity. Then he'd go into his act.

Nothing upset the captains quite so much as Jimmy's habit of holding a
big, croaking bullfrog up by its legs as the riverboats went steaming
past. It was a surefire way of reminding the captains that men and frogs
were brothers under the skin. The puffed-out throat of the frog told the
captains exactly what Jimmy thought of their cheek.

Jimmy refrained from making faces, or sticking out his tongue at the
grinning roustabouts. It was the frog that did the trick.

In the still dawn things came sailing Jimmy's way, hurled by captains
with a twinkle of repressed merriment dancing in eyes that were kindlier
and more tolerant than Jimmy dreamed.

Just because shantyboat folk had no right to insult the riverboats Jimmy
had collected forty empty tobacco tins, a down-at-heels shoe, a Sears
Roebuck catalogue and--more rolled up newspapers than Jimmy could ever
read.

Jimmy could read, of course. No matter how badly Uncle Al needed a new
pair of shoes, Jimmy's education came first. So Jimmy had spent six
winters ashore in a first-class grammar school, his books paid for out
of Uncle Al's "New Orleans" money.

Uncle Al, blowing on a vinegar jug and making sweet music, the holes in
his socks much bigger than the holes in Jimmy's socks. Uncle Al shaking
his head and saying sadly, "Some day, young fella, I ain't gonna sit
here harmonizing. No siree! I'm gonna buy myself a brand new store suit,
trade in this here jig jug for a big round banjo, and hie myself off to
the Mardi Gras. Ain't too old thataway to git a little fun out of life,
young fella!"

Poor old Uncle Al. The money he'd saved up for the Mardi Gras never
seemed to stretch far enough. There was enough kindness in him to
stretch like a rainbow over the bayous and the river forests of sweet,
rustling pine for as far as the eye could see. Enough kindness to wrap
all of Jimmy's life in a glow, and the life of Jimmy's sister as well.

Jimmy's parents had died of winter pneumonia too soon to appreciate
Uncle Al. But up and down the river everyone knew that Uncle Al was a
great man.

       *       *       *       *       *

Enemies? Well, sure, all great men made enemies, didn't they?

The Harmon brothers were downright sinful about carrying their feuding
meanness right up to the doorstep of Uncle Al, if it could be said that
a man living in a shantyboat had a doorstep.

Uncle Al made big catches and the Harmon brothers never seemed to have
any luck. So, long before Jimmy was old enough to understand how
corrosive envy could be the Harmon brothers had started feuding with
Uncle Al.

"Jimmy, here comes the _Natchez Belle_! Uncle Al says for you to get him
a newspaper. The newspaper you got him yesterday he couldn't read
no-ways. It was soaking wet!"

Jimmy turned to glower at his sister. Up and down the river Pigtail Anne
was known as a tomboy, but she wasn't--no-ways. She was Jimmy's little
sister. That meant Jimmy was the man in the family, and wore the pants,
and nothing Pigtail said or did could change that for one minute.

"Don't yell at me!" Jimmy complained. "How can I get Captain Simmons mad
if you get me mad first? Have a heart, will you?"

But Pigtail Anne refused to budge. Even when the _Natchez Belle_ loomed
so close to the shantyboat that it blotted out the sky she continued to
crowd her brother, preventing him from holding up the frog and making
Captain Simmons squirm.

But Jimmy got the newspaper anyway. Captain Simmons had a keen insight
into tomboy psychology, and from the bridge of the _Natchez Belle_ he
could see that Pigtail was making life miserable for Jimmy.

True--Jimmy had no respect for packet boats and deserved a good
trouncing. But what a scrapper the lad was! Never let it be said that in
a struggle between the sexes the men of the river did not stand shoulder
to shoulder.

The paper came sailing over the shining brown water like a white-bellied
buffalo cat shot from a sling.

Pigtail grabbed it before Jimmy could give her a shove. Calmly she
unwrapped it, her chin tilted in bellicose defiance.

As the _Natchez Belle_ dwindled around a lazy, cypress-shadowed bend
Pigtail Anne became a superior being, wrapped in a cosmopolitan aura. A
wide-eyed little girl on a swaying deck, the great outside world rushing
straight toward her from all directions.

Pigtail could take that world in her stride. She liked the fashion page
best, but she was not above clicking her tongue at everything in the
paper.

"Kidnap plot linked to airliner crash killing fifty," she read. "Red Sox
blank Yanks! Congress sits today, vowing vengeance! Million dollar
heiress elopes with a clerk! Court lets dog pick owner! Girl of eight
kills her brother in accidental shooting!"

"I ought to push your face right down in the mud," Jimmy muttered.

"Don't you dare! I've a right to see what's going on in the world!"

"You said the paper was for Uncle Al!"

"It is--when I get finished with it."

Jimmy started to take hold of his sister's wrist and pry the paper from
her clasp. Only started--for as Pigtail wriggled back sunlight fell on a
shadowed part of the paper which drew Jimmy's gaze as sunlight draws
dew.

_Exciting_ wasn't the word for the headline. It seemed to blaze out of
the page at Jimmy as he stared, his chin nudging Pigtail's shoulder.


                       NEW FLYING MONSTER REPORTED
                        BLAZING GULF STATE SKIES


Jimmy snatched the paper and backed away from Pigtail, his eyes glued to
the headline.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was kind to his sister, however. He read the news item aloud, if an
account so startling could be called an item. To Jimmy it seemed more
like a dazzling burst of light in the sky.

"A New Orleans resident reported today that he saw a big bright object
'roundish like a disk' flying north, against the wind. 'It was all
lighted up from inside!' the observer stated. 'As far as I could tell
there were no signs of life aboard the thing. It was much bigger than
any of the flying saucers previously reported!'"

"People keep seeing them!" Jimmy muttered, after a pause. "Nobody knows
where they come from! Saucers flying through the sky, high up at night.
In the daytime, too! Maybe we're being _watched_, Pigtail!"

"Watched? Jimmy, what do you mean? What you talking about?"

Jimmy stared at his sister, the paper jiggling in his clasp. "It's way
over your head, Pigtail!" he said sympathetically. "I'll prove it!
What's a planet?"

"A star in the sky, you dope!" Pigtail almost screamed. "Wait'll Uncle
Al hears what a meanie you are. If I wasn't your sister you wouldn't
dare grab a paper that doesn't belong to you."

Jimmy refused to be enraged. "A planet's not a star, Pigtail," he said
patiently. "A star's a big ball of fire like the sun. A planet is small
and cool, like the Earth. Some of the planets may even have people on
them. Not people like us, but people all the same. Maybe we're just
frogs to them!"

"You're crazy, Jimmy! Crazy, crazy, you hear?"

Jimmy started to reply, then shut his mouth tight. Big waves were
nothing new in the wake of steamboats, but the shantyboat wasn't just
riding a swell. It was swaying and rocking like a floating barrel in the
kind of blow Shantyboaters dreaded worse than the thought of dying.

Jimmy knew that a big blow could come up fast. Straight down from the
sky in gusts, from all directions, banging against the boat like a
drunken roustabout, slamming doors, tearing away mooring planks.

       *       *       *       *       *

The river could rise fast too. Under the lashing of a hurricane blowing
up from the gulf the river could lift a shantyboat right out of the
water, and smash it to smithereens against a tree.

But now the blow was coming from just one part of the sky. A funnel of
wind was churning the river into a white froth and raising big swells
directly offshore. But the river wasn't rising and the sun was shining
in a clear sky.

Jimmy knew a dangerous floodwater storm when he saw one. The sky had to
be dark with rain, and you had to feel scared, in fear of drowning.

Jimmy was scared, all right. That part of it rang true. But a hollow,
sick feeling in his chest couldn't mean anything by itself, he told
himself fiercely.

Pigtail Anne saw the disk before Jimmy did. She screamed and pointed
skyward, her twin braids standing straight out in the wind like the
ropes on a bale of cotton, when smokestacks collapse and a savage
howling sends the river ghosts scurrying for cover.

Straight down out of the sky the disk swooped, a huge, spinning shape
as flat as a buckwheat cake swimming in a golden haze of butterfat.

But the disk didn't remind Jimmy of a buckwheat cake. It made him think
instead of a slowly turning wheel in the pilot house of a rotting old
riverboat, a big, ghostly wheel manned by a steersman a century dead,
his eye sockets filled with flickering swamp lights.

It made Jimmy want to run and hide. Almost it made him want to cling to
his sister, content to let her wear the pants if only he could be spared
the horror.

For there was something so chilling about the downsweeping disk that
Jimmy's heart began leaping like a vinegar jug bobbing about in the wake
of a capsizing fishboat.

Lower and lower the disk swept, trailing plumes of white smoke, lashing
the water with a fearful blow. Straight down over the cypress wilderness
that fringed the opposite bank, and then out across the river with a
long-drawn whistling sound, louder than the air-sucking death gasps of a
thousand buffalo cats.

Jimmy didn't see the disk strike the shining broad shoulders of the
Father of Waters, for the bend around which the _Natchez Belle_ had
steamed so proudly hid the sky monster from view. But Jimmy did see the
waterspout, spiraling skyward like the atom bomb explosion he'd goggled
at in the pages of an old _Life_ magazine, all smudged now with oily
thumbprints.

Just a roaring for an instant--and a big white mushroom shooting
straight up into the sky. Then, slowly, the mushroom decayed and fell
back, and an awful stillness settled down over the river.

       *       *       *       *       *

The stillness was broken by a shrill cry from Pigtail Anne. "It was a
flying saucer! Jimmy, we've seen one! We've seen one! We've--"

"Shut your mouth, Pigtail!"

Jimmy shaded his eyes and stared out across the river, his chest a
throbbing ache.

He was still staring when a door creaked behind him.

Jimmy trembled. A tingling fear went through him, for he found it hard
to realize that the disk had swept around the bend out of sight. To his
overheated imagination it continued to fill all of the sky above him,
overshadowing the shantyboat, making every sound a threat.

Sucking the still air deep into his lungs, Jimmy swung about.

Uncle Al was standing on the deck in a little pool of sunlight, his
gaunt, hollow-cheeked face set in harsh lines. Uncle Al was shading his
eyes too. But he was staring up the river, not down.

"Trouble, young fella," he grunted. "Sure as I'm a-standin' here. A
barrelful o' trouble--headin' straight for us!"

Jimmy gulped and gestured wildly toward the bend. "It came down _over
there_, Uncle Al!" he got out. "Pigtail saw it, too! A big, flying--"

"The Harmons are a-comin', young fella," Uncle Al drawled, silencing
Jimmy with a wave of his hand. "Yesterday I rowed over a Harmon jug line
without meanin' to. Now Jed Harmon's tellin' everybody I stole his
fish!"

Very calmly Uncle Al cut himself a slice of the strongest tobacco on the
river and packed it carefully in his pipe, wadding it down with his
thumb.

He started to put the pipe between his teeth, then thought better of it.

"I can bone-feel the Harmon boat a-comin', young fella," he said, using
the pipe to gesture with. "Smooth and quiet over the river like a
moccasin snake."

Jimmy turned pale. He forgot about the disk and the mushrooming water
spout. When he shut his eyes he saw only a red haze overhanging the
river, and a shantyboat nosing out of the cypresses, its windows
spitting death.

       *       *       *       *       *

Jimmy knew that the Harmons had waited a long time for an excuse. The
Harmons were law-respecting river rats with sharp teeth. Feuding wasn't
lawful, but murder could be made lawful by whittling down a lie until it
looked as sharp as the truth.

The Harmon brothers would do their whittling down with double-barreled
shotguns. It was easy enough to make murder look like a lawful crime if
you could point to a body covered by a blanket and say, "We caught him
stealing our fish! He was a-goin' to kill us--so we got him first."

No one would think of lifting the blanket and asking Uncle Al about it.
A man lying stiff and still under a blanket could no more make himself
heard than a river cat frozen in the ice.

"Git inside, young 'uns. _Here they come!_"

Jimmy's heart skipped a beat. Down the river in the sunlight a
shantyboat was drifting. Jimmy could see the Harmon brothers crouching
on the deck, their faces livid with hate, sunlight glinting on their
arm-cradled shotguns.

The Harmon brothers were not in the least alike. Jed Harmon was tall and
gaunt, his right cheek puckered by a knife scar, his cruel, thin-lipped
mouth snagged by his teeth. Joe Harmon was small and stout, a little
round man with bushy eyebrows and the flabby face of a cottonmouth
snake.

"Go inside, Pigtail," Jimmy said, calmly. "I'm a-going to stay and
fight!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Uncle Al grabbed Jimmy's arm and swung him around. "You heard what I
said, young fella. Now git!"

"I want to stay here and fight with you, Uncle Al," Jimmy said.

"Have you got a gun? Do you want to be blown apart, young fella?"

"I'm not scared, Uncle Al," Jimmy pleaded. "You might get wounded. I
know how to shoot straight, Uncle Al. If you get hurt I'll go right on
fighting!"

"No you won't, young fella! Take Pigtail inside. You hear me? You want
me to take you across my knee and beat the livin' stuffings out of you?"

Silence.

Deep in his uncle's face Jimmy saw an anger he couldn't buck. Grabbing
Pigtail Anne by the arm, he propelled her across the deck and into the
dismal front room of the shantyboat.

The instant he released her she glared at him and stamped her foot. "If
Uncle Al gets shot it'll be your fault," she said cruelly. Then
Pigtail's anger really flared up.

"The Harmons wouldn't dare shoot us 'cause we're children!"

For an instant brief as a dropped heartbeat Jimmy stared at his sister
with unconcealed admiration.

"You can be right smart when you've got nothing else on your mind,
Pigtail," he said. "If they kill me they'll hang sure as shooting!"

Jimmy was out in the sunlight again before Pigtail could make a grab for
him.

Out on the deck and running along the deck toward Uncle Al. He was still
running when the first blast came.

       *       *       *       *       *

It didn't sound like a shotgun blast. The deck shook and a big swirl of
smoke floated straight toward Jimmy, half blinding him and blotting
Uncle Al from view.

When the smoke cleared Jimmy could see the Harmon shantyboat. It was
less than thirty feet away now, drifting straight past and rocking with
the tide like a topheavy flatbarge.

On the deck Jed Harmon was crouching down, his gaunt face split in a
triumphant smirk. Beside him Joe Harmon stood quivering like a mound of
jelly, a stick of dynamite in his hand, his flabby face looking almost
gentle in the slanting sunlight.

There was a little square box at Jed Harmon's feet. As Joe pitched Jed
reached into the box for another dynamite stick. Jed was passing the
sticks along to his brother, depending on wad dynamite to silence Uncle
Al forever.

Wildly Jimmy told himself that the guns had been just a trick to mix
Uncle Al up, and keep him from shooting until they had him where they
wanted him.

Uncle Al was shooting now, his face as grim as death. His big heavy gun
was leaping about like mad, almost hurling him to the deck.

Jimmy saw the second dynamite stick spinning through the air, but he
never saw it come down. All he could see was the smoke and the
shantyboat rocking, and another terrible splintering crash as he went
plunging into the river from the end of a rising plank, a sob strangling
in his throat.

Jimmy struggled up from the river with the long leg-thrusts of a
terrified bullfrog, his head a throbbing ache. As he swam shoreward he
could see the cypresses on the opposite bank, dark against the sun, and
something that looked like the roof of a house with water washing over
it.

Then, with mud sucking at his heels, Jimmy was clinging to a slippery
bank and staring out across the river, shading his eyes against the
glare.

Jimmy thought, "I'm dreaming! I'll wake up and see Uncle Joe blowing on
a vinegar jug. I'll see Pigtail, too. Uncle Al will be sitting on the
deck, taking it easy!"

But Uncle Al wasn't sitting on the deck. There was no deck for Uncle Al
to sit upon. Just the top of the shantyboat, sinking lower and lower,
and Uncle Al swimming.

Uncle Al had his arm around Pigtail, and Jimmy could see Pigtail's white
face bobbing up and down as Uncle Al breasted the tide with his strong
right arm.

Closer to the bend was the Harmon shantyboat. The Harmons were using
their shotguns now, blasting fiercely away at Uncle Al and Pigtail.
Jimmy could see the smoke curling up from the leaping guns and the water
jumping up and down in little spurts all about Uncle Al.

There was an awful hollow agony in Jimmy's chest as he stared, a fear
that was partly a soundless screaming and partly a vision of Uncle Al
sinking down through the dark water and turning it red.

It was strange, though. Something was happening to Jimmy, nibbling away
at the outer edges of the fear like a big, hungry river cat. Making the
fear seem less swollen and awful, shredding it away in little flakes.

There was a white core of anger in Jimmy which seemed suddenly to blaze
up.

He shut his eyes tight.

In his mind's gaze Jimmy saw himself holding the Harmon brothers up by
their long, mottled legs. The Harmon brothers were frogs. Not friendly,
good natured frogs like Uncle Al, but snake frogs. Cottonmouth frogs.

All flannel red were their mouths, and they had long evil fangs which
dripped poison in the sunlight. But Jimmy wasn't afraid of them no-ways.
Not any more. He had too firm a grip on their legs.

"Don't let anything happen to Uncle Al and Pigtail!" Jimmy whispered, as
though he were talking to himself. No--not exactly to himself. To
someone like himself, only larger. Very close to Jimmy, but larger, more
powerful.

"Catch them before they harm Uncle Al! Hurry! _Hurry!_"

There was a strange lifting sensation in Jimmy's chest now. As though he
could shake the river if he tried hard enough, tilt it, send it swirling
in great thunderous white surges clear down to Lake Pontchartrain.

       *       *       *       *       *

But Jimmy didn't want to tilt the river. Not with Uncle Al on it and
Pigtail, and all those people in New Orleans who would disappear right
off the streets. They were frogs too, maybe, but good frogs. Not like
the Harmon brothers.

Jimmy had a funny picture of himself much younger than he was. Jimmy saw
himself as a great husky baby, standing in the middle of the river and
blowing on it with all his might. The waves rose and rose, and Jimmy's
cheeks swelled out and the river kept getting angrier.

No--he must fight that.

"Save Uncle Al!" he whispered fiercely. "Just save him--and Pigtail!"

It began to happen the instant Jimmy opened his eyes. Around the bend in
the sunlight came a great spinning disk, wrapped in a fiery glow.

Straight toward the Harmon shantyboat the disk swept, water spurting up
all about it, its bottom fifty feet wide. There was no collision. Only a
brightness for one awful instant where the shantyboat was twisting and
turning in the current, a brightness that outshone the rising sun.

Just like a camera flashbulb going off, but bigger, brighter. So big and
bright that Jimmy could see the faces of the Harmon brothers fifty times
as large as life, shriveling and disappearing in a magnifying burst of
flame high above the cypress trees. Just as though a giant in the sky
had trained a big burning glass on the Harmon brothers and whipped it
back quick.

Whipped it straight up, so that the faces would grow huge before
dissolving as a warning to all snakes. There was an evil anguish in the
dissolving faces which made Jimmy's blood run cold. Then the disk was
alone in the middle of the river, spinning around and around, the
shantyboat swallowed up.

And Uncle Al was still swimming, fearfully close to it.

The net came swirling out of the disk over Uncle Al like a great,
dew-drenched gossamer web. It enmeshed him as he swam, so gently that he
hardly seemed to struggle or even to be aware of what was happening to
him.

Pigtail didn't resist, either. She simply stopped thrashing in Uncle
Al's arms, as though a great wonder had come upon her.

Slowly Uncle Al and Pigtail were drawn into the disk. Jimmy could see
Uncle Al reclining in the web, with Pigtail in the crook of his arm, his
long, angular body as quiet as a butterfly in its deep winter sleep
inside a swaying glass cocoon.

Uncle Al and Pigtail, being drawn together into the disk as Jimmy
stared, a dull pounding in his chest. After a moment the pounding
subsided and a silence settled down over the river.

Jimmy sucked in his breath. The voices began quietly, as though they had
been waiting for a long time to speak to Jimmy deep inside his head, and
didn't want to frighten him in any way.

"Take it easy, Jimmy! Stay where you are. We're just going to have a
friendly little talk with Uncle Al."

"A t-talk?" Jimmy heard himself stammering.

"We knew we'd find you where life flows simply and serenely, Jimmy.
Your parents took care of that before they left you with Uncle Al.

"You see, Jimmy, we wanted you to study the Earth people on a great,
wide flowing river, far from the cruel, twisted places. To grow up with
them, Jimmy--and to understand them. Especially the Uncle Als. For Uncle
Al is unspoiled, Jimmy. If there's any hope at all for Earth as we guide
and watch it, that hope burns most brightly in the Uncle Als!"

The voice paused, then went on quickly. "You see, Jimmy, you're not
human in the same way that your sister is human--or Uncle Al. But you're
still young enough to feel human, and we want you to feel human, Jimmy."

"W--Who are you?" Jimmy gasped.

"We are the Shining Ones, Jimmy! For wide wastes of years we have
cruised Earth's skies, almost unnoticed by the Earth people. When
darkness wraps the Earth in a great, spinning shroud we hide our ships
close to the cities, and glide through the silent streets in search of
our young. You see, Jimmy, we must watch and protect the young of our
race until sturdiness comes upon them, and they are ready for the Great
Change."

       *       *       *       *       *

For an instant there was a strange, humming sound deep inside Jimmy's
head, like the drowsy murmur of bees in a dew-drenched clover patch.
Then the voice droned on. "The Earth people are frightened by our ships
now, for their cruel wars have put a great fear of death in their
hearts. They watch the skies with sharper eyes, and their minds have
groped closer to the truth.

"To the Earth people our ships are no longer the fireballs of mysterious
legend, haunted will-o'-the-wisps, marsh flickerings and the even more
illusive distortions of the sick in mind. It is a long bold step from
fireballs to flying saucers, Jimmy. A day will come when the Earth
people will be wise enough to put aside fear. Then we can show ourselves
to them as we really are, and help them openly."

The voice seemed to take more complete possession of Jimmy's thoughts
then, growing louder and more eager, echoing through his mind with the
persuasiveness of muted chimes.

"Jimmy, close your eyes tight. We're going to take you across wide gulfs
of space to the bright and shining land of your birth."

Jimmy obeyed.

It was a city, and yet it wasn't like New York or Chicago or any of the
other cities Jimmy had seen illustrations of in the newspapers and
picture magazines.

The buildings were white and domed and shining, and they seemed to tower
straight up into the sky. There were streets, too, weaving in and out
between the domes like rainbow-colored spider webs in a forest of
mushrooms.

       *       *       *       *       *

There were no people in the city, but down the aerial streets shining
objects swirled with the swift easy gliding of flat stones skimming an
edge of running water.

Then as Jimmy stared into the depths of the strange glow behind his
eyelids the city dwindled and fell away, and he saw a huge circular disk
looming in a wilderness of shadows. Straight toward the disk a shining
object moved, bearing aloft on filaments of flame a much smaller object
that struggled and mewed and reached out little white arms.

Closer and closer the shining object came, until Jimmy could see that it
was carrying a human infant that stared straight at Jimmy out of wide,
dark eyes. But before he could get a really good look at the shining
object it pierced the shadows and passed into the disk.

There was a sudden, blinding burst of light, and the disk was gone.

Jimmy opened his eyes.

"You were once like that baby, Jimmy!" the voice said. "You were carried
by your parents into a waiting ship, and then out across wide gulfs of
space to Earth.

"You see, Jimmy, our race was once entirely human. But as we grew to
maturity we left the warm little worlds where our infancy was spent,
and boldly sought the stars, shedding our humanness as sunlight sheds
the dew, or a bright, soaring moth of the night its ugly pupa case.

"We grew great and wise, Jimmy, but not quite wise enough to shed our
human heritage of love and joy and heartbreak. In our childhood we must
return to the scenes of our past, to take root again in familiar soil,
to grow in power and wisdom slowly and sturdily, like a seed dropped
back into the loam which nourished the great flowering mother plant.

"Or like the eel of Earth's seas, Jimmy, that must be spawned in the
depths of the great cold ocean, and swim slowly back to the bright
highlands and the shining rivers of Earth. Young eels do not resemble
their parents, Jimmy. They're white and thin and transparent and have to
struggle hard to survive and grow up.

"Jimmy, you were planted here by your parents to grow wise and strong.
Deep in your mind you knew that we had come to seek you out, for we are
all born human, and are bound one to another by that knowledge, and that
secret trust.

"You knew that we would watch over you and see that no harm would come
to you. You called out to us, Jimmy, with all the strength of your mind
and heart. Your Uncle Al was in danger and you sensed our nearness.

"It was partly your knowledge that saved him, Jimmy. But it took courage
too, and a willingness to believe that you were more than human, and
armed with the great proud strength and wisdom of the Shining Ones."

       *       *       *       *       *

The voice grew suddenly gentle, like a caressing wind.

"You're not old enough yet to go home, Jimmy! Or wise enough. We'll take
you home when the time comes. Now we just want to have a talk with Uncle
Al, to find out how you're getting along."

Jimmy looked down into the river and then up into the sky. Deep down
under the dark, swirling water he could see life taking shape in a
thousand forms. Caddis flies building bright, shining new nests, and
dragonfly nymphs crawling up toward the sunlight, and pollywogs growing
sturdy hindlimbs to conquer the land.

But there were cottonmouths down there too, with death behind their
fangs, and no love for the life that was crawling upward. When Jimmy
looked up into the sky he could see all the blazing stars of space, with
cottonmouths on every planet of every sun.

Uncle Al was like a bright caddis fly building a fine new nest, thatched
with kindness, denying himself bright little Mardi Gras pleasures so
that Jimmy could go to school and grow wiser than Uncle Al.

"That's right, Jimmy. You're growing up--we can see that! Uncle Al says
he told you to bide from the cottonmouths. But you were ready to give
your life for your sister and Uncle Al."

"Shucks, it was nothing!" Jimmy heard himself protesting.

"Uncle Al doesn't think so. And neither do we!"

       *       *       *       *       *

A long silence while the river mists seemed to weave a bright cocoon of
radiance about Jimmy clinging to the bank, and the great circular disk
that had swallowed up Uncle Al.

Then the voices began again. "No reason why Uncle Al shouldn't have a
little fun out of life, Jimmy. Gold's easy to make and we'll make some
right now. A big lump of gold in Uncle Al's hand won't hurt him in any
way."

"Whenever he gets any spending money he gives it away!" Jimmy gulped.

"I know, Jimmy. But he'll listen to you. Tell him you want to go to New
Orleans, too!"

Jimmy looked up quickly then. In his heart was something of the wonder
he'd felt when he'd seen his first riverboat and waited for he knew not
what. Something of the wonder that must have come to men seeking magic
in the sky, the rainmakers of ancient tribes and of days long vanished.

Only to Jimmy the wonder came now with a white burst of remembrance and
recognition.

It was as though he could sense something of himself in the two towering
spheres that rose straight up out of the water behind the disk. Still
and white and beautiful they were, like bubbles floating on a rainbow
sea with all the stars of space behind them.

Staring at them, Jimmy saw himself as he would be, and knew himself for
what he was. It was not a glory to be long endured.

"Now you must forget again, Jimmy! Forget as Uncle Al will forget--until
we come for you. Be a little shantyboat boy! You are safe on the wide
bosom of the Father of Waters. Your parents planted you in a rich and
kindly loam, and in all the finite universes you will find no cosier
nook, for life flows here with a diversity that is infinite
and--_Pigtail_! She gets on your nerves at times, doesn't she, Jimmy?"

"She sure does," Jimmy admitted.

"Be patient with her, Jimmy. She's the only human sister you'll ever
have on Earth."

"I--I'll try!" Jimmy muttered.

       *       *       *       *       *

Uncle Al and Pigtail came out of the disk in an amazingly simple way.
They just seemed to float out, in the glimmering web. Then, suddenly,
there wasn't any disk on the river at all--just a dull flickering where
the sky had opened like a great, blazing furnace to swallow it up.

"I was just swimmin' along with Pigtail, not worryin' too much, 'cause
there's no sense in worryin' when death is starin' you in the face,"
Uncle Al muttered, a few minutes later.

Uncle Al sat on the riverbank beside Jimmy, staring down at his palm,
his vision misted a little by a furious blinking.

"It's gold, Uncle Al!" Pigtail shrilled. "A big lump of solid gold--"

"I just felt my hand get heavy and there it was, young fella, nestling
there in my palm!"

Jimmy didn't seem to be able to say anything.

"High school books don't cost no more than grammar school books, young
fella," Uncle Al said, his face a sudden shining. "Next winter you'll be
a-goin' to high school, sure as I'm a-sittin' here!"

For a moment the sunlight seemed to blaze so brightly about Uncle Al
that Jimmy couldn't even see the holes in his socks.

Then Uncle Al made a wry face. "Someday, young fella, when your books
are all paid for, I'm gonna buy myself a brand new store suit, and hie
myself off to the Mardi Gras. Ain't too old thataway to git a little fun
out of life, young fella!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Note: The following typographical errors in the original
text have been corrected in this eBook:

Page 31: "sunilght" changed to "sunlight"

Page 32: "tie" changed to "tide"





End of Project Gutenberg's The Mississippi Saucer, by Frank Belknap Long

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MISSISSIPPI SAUCER ***

***** This file should be named 23568.txt or 23568.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/3/5/6/23568/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Joel Schlosberg and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
