The Project Gutenberg EBook of General Max Shorter, by Kris Ottman Neville

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: General Max Shorter

Author: Kris Ottman Neville

Release Date: November 20, 2007 [EBook #23571]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GENERAL MAX SHORTER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          GENERAL MAX SHORTER

                            By KRIS NEVILLE

                         Illustrated by GIUNTA

[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Galaxy December 1962.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright
on this publication was renewed.]


     _To spread Mankind to the stars carries a high cost in lives--and
     not all of them are human!_




I


Miracastle: The initial landing had been made on a flat plateau among
steep, foreboding mountains which seemed to float through briefly
cleared air. In the distance a sharp rock formation stood revealed like
an etching: a castle of iron-gray stone whose form had been carved by
alien winds and eroded by acid tears from acid clouds.

Far above was a halo where the sun should be. The sun was an orange star
only slightly larger than Sol and as near to Miracastle as Sol to Earth.
The orange rays splintered against the fog and gloom was perpetually
upon the dark face of existence.

This was the first two-stage planet man had ever attempted to colonize.
Miracastle was so far from Earth that the long ships were destroyed
twice to reach it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The technicians came, commanded by General Max Shorter, sixty-three
years old. Men wearing the circle whose diameter was etched in ruby
steel enclosing a background of gleaming ebon--the emblem was a silver D
over a sunburst of hammered gold.

The surface of Miracastle roiled with unfamiliar storms and tornados and
hurricanes. Before these, the films of lichen evaporated into dust, and
the sparse and stunted vegetation with ochre foliage turned sear and was
powdered by the fury in the air.

Earth equipment, alien to the orange sun, hammered into the heart of
Miracastle. Night and day it converted the pulverized substance of the
planet in the white-hot core of its atomic furnaces.

Acid rivers snapped at the wind and changed to salt deposits and
super-heated steam. In the gaseous atmosphere, neutral crystals formed
and fell like powdered rain. Miracastle heated and cooled and shivered
with the virus of man-made chemical reactions, and the storms screamed
and tore at the age-old mountains.

Inside the eternal, self-renewing Richardson domes, the technicians
worked and waited and superintended the computers which controlled the
processes raging beyond them.

The long ship lifted steadily and majestically through the battering
storm and the driving rain of dust and crystals. Out beyond the dense
space that surrounds all stars, the long ship probed the ever-shifting
currents in the four-dimensional universe. The long ship found a
low-density flaw, where space could hardly be said to exist at all. The
long ship, described mathematically, was half as long as the
continuum--the length being inversely proportional and related only to
mass. Time was but a moth's wing between twin cliffs of eternity.

Inside Miracastle's orange sun, at its very core, an atom of hydrogen
was destroyed completely; and in the inconceivable distance, an atom of
hydrogen appeared. The pulsing, steady-state equation of the universe
maintained its knife-edge and inevitable thermo-dynamic balance.

Inside the long ship, a pilot-machine ordered the destruction of a
vastly greater collection of matter. The atoms of the ship and the
sailors--fixed in relationship, each to each--imploded into nothingness.

And the long ship and the men aboard it were born again at a low-density
area a million light years away--halfway to Earth. Born and were
destroyed again, in the blink of an eye.

Beyond the ship now lay Sol, pulsing in its own warmth and warming its
children embedded in the cold and distant texture of the universe. The
sailors were ghosts come home.

Miracastle was alone with her conquerors.

       *       *       *       *       *

General Max Shorter, a few weeks later, began writing a diary.

"I have been Destroyed thirty-seven times during forty years' service
with the long ships," he wrote. He wrote with a pen, using a metal
straight edge as a line rule.

"I have served faithfully and I believe as well as any man the Corps,
the planet and mankind. It is perhaps appropriate at this time, as I
approach the end of my long service, to record a few observations which
have occurred to me during the course of it as well as to record the
day-to-day details of my present command."

The general wrote: "A man is given a job to do. And when all is said and
done, that is the most important thing in his life: to do his job."

It took perhaps ten seconds for the soft knock to penetrate his
concentration. He adjusted himself to the moment and closed the diary
softly. He deposited it in the upper right-hand drawer of the writing
desk and locked the drawer.

The knock came again.

He arranged his tie.

"Come in," General Shorter said.

The agitation of the man in the doorway was announced by the paleness of
his face.

"Come in, David," General Shorter said, rising politely from the writing
desk. "Be seated, please."

"General, we've had a ... a very unfortunate thing happen on the shift."

The general sank back into his chair. Light from the desk lamp framed
his expressionless and immobile face, half in light, half in shadow. He
fingered the straight-edge on the desk top.

"Sit down, David, and then tell me about it."

Shift-Captain Arnold moved uncertainly.

"Sit down, sit down," General Shorter repeated impatiently.

Captain Arnold seated himself on the edge of the chair.

"One of the men," he said, "just committed suicide. He was in charge of
the air changing monitor this shift. He went outside without a suit."

The general blinked as though to remove an irritation from his eye. His
hand lay still and hard upon the straight-edge. "What was his name?" he
asked in a voice that was vaguely puzzled.

"Schuster. Sergeant Schuster, sir."

"Yes, I remember him," the general said. "He came to us about a week
before the lift. I think he was from Colorado. He had very broad
shoulders. Short and broad. Neat appearing. Uniform always in good
order."

General Shorter ran his thumb and forefinger up the bridge of his nose
and then, with a very small sigh, placed his palm over his eyes.

"Draw up the report," he said. "Was there a final message?" The question
was uttered without hesitation and was followed by a moment of silence.

"No, sir."

General Shorter's breath was audible.

"Please feel free to smoke, David."

"Thank you, sir, I don't smoke."

"No, of course not. I'd forgotten." General Shorter half turned and
placed his hands on the desk. He stood under their pressure. "What would
you say to a brandy?"

"I should return to duty, sir."

"A few minutes more," the general said. "The brandy is good." He moved
into the shadow and sorted bottles at his tiny cupboard. "Here." He held
the glass to the light. Amber liquid flowed softly and the general
handed across the half-filled glass. "Sit back," he said. "I'll join
you."

Glass in hand, the general stood with his back to the light. He seemed
surrounded by cold fire, and the glass sparkled as he lifted it. He
sipped. "Try it, it's good."

"It's very good, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

For a moment neither spoke. Then the general said, "This isn't my first
command, you know. I've seen men die. I've had to take chances with them
occasionally. You could say, I suppose, that I ordered some men to their
deaths. But still, the men came aboard knowing the risks. In the final
sense, they, not I, made the decision. I never sent a--"

The sentence ended as the glass slipped and fell. "I'm sorry," he said,
looking down at the sparkling fragments at his feet. The dark
liquid--the light gave it a reddish cast--puddled and flowed and its
aroma filled the room. "No, no. Let it be, David. I'll get it later."

The general went to the cupboard and poured into a new glass. Again he
was light and shadow. The spilled liquid approached the shadow and was
devoured in it as though it had never been, but still the aroma stood on
the air.

The general said: "Imagine, if you can, David, that Earth were attacked,
and the attack destroyed many of the military installations. After you
struck back, David, what would you do next?"

"I don't know, sir. I'm not a strategist, I'm afraid."

"What about your cities? The millions of people trapped without
supplies--over-running the countryside, looting, plundering in search of
food. Carrying pestilence and disease and terror. What would you do,
David?"

"Well, I guess I'd try to organize some relief organization or
something."

"But David. Anything you diverted to care for these people would limit
your ability to fight back, wouldn't it? They would be cluttering up all
your transportation, frustrating effective retaliation. Your second move
would be to take the bombs which destroy people and not property and ...
use them on your own cities."

Captain Arnold drained his glass. "That would be...." He did not finish.

"Insane, David? No. Rational. Field Commanders must be realists. The job
comes first. In this case, the job of defeating the enemy.... But what
does that have to do with us? Nothing, eh? You're right. Sometimes I
like to talk, and I suppose that's one of my privileges. I'm not the
idealist I used to be, I guess. I remember when I was your age. I saw
things differently than I do now. What used to seem important no longer
does. Each stage of development has its unique biological imperatives: a
child, a youth, a mature man, look out on the world from a body held in
focus to different chemistries. But the job remains." General Shorter
held up his glass. "Cheers." He drained it.

Again there was silence.

"David, do you think I'm in much trouble?"

"I'm afraid so, General. The Committee is due to arrive tomorrow."

"I know," the general said. "This suicide isn't going to help us.
Tomorrow. Is it that soon? I thought ... yes, I guess it is tomorrow....
Well, we've been here long enough to lose our immunity, so we'll all
catch colds."

Captain Arnold stood. "I better get started on my report."

"Poor Sergeant Schuster," General Shorter said. "If anyone's to blame,
it must be me."

"He obeyed the orders."

"What did you say?"

"I said he obeyed the orders, sir."

"Of course he obeyed the orders," the general said. "What else could he
have done?"




II


The long ship hung in orbit above Miracastle and discharged its
passengers. The Scout Ball could handle them: saving energy, which along
with time itself, is the ultimate precious commodity of the universe
governed by the laws of entropy.

The Scout Ball settled through the dark turbulence undisturbed by the
hissing winds. It hovered momentarily in the invisible beacon above the
Richardson dome as if both attracted and repelled. It moved horizontally
and settled. Suited figures on the surface wrestled with its flexible
exit-tube against the storm, fighting to couple it to the lock of the
Richardson dome. The exit-tube moved rhythmically until the Scout Ball
inched away, drawing it taut. Pumps whirred. The suited figures entered
the forward lock of the Scout Ball.

Inside, General Shorter divested himself of the helmet. The suit hung
upon him like ancient, wrinkled skin.

He asked, "What time is it?"

Upon being told, he nodded with satisfaction. "Seventeen minutes, total.
Good job. Who's in charge?"

"A Mr. Tucker, sir."

"Tucker? Jim Tucker, by any chance?"

"Yes, sir."

General Shorter grunted. "Served with him once. He's probably
forgotten.... That's all right. I'll keep the suit on."

"I don't think they're expecting you with the surface party, General."

"Probably not or they'd be here. Earth crew?"

"They've been out ten months or so, sir."

"We will have colds, then. Would you take me to Mr. Tucker, please?" To
the other suited men he said, "Good, fast job."

General Shorter followed the crewman up the spiral staircase and along
the corridor. His hand touched a frictionless wall. "New plastic?"

"This is one of the most recent balls, sir."

"How does it handle?"

"Quite well, sir."

"I miss the Model Ten," he said.

"There's only a few left now, I guess."

"I haven't seen one in years."

The crewman stopped before a numberless panel. He knocked politely. "Mr.
Tucker? I have General Shorter here. He came out with the surface
party."

Mr. Tucker's voice, the edge of surprise partly lost through the
partition, came: "Just a moment."

In silence they waited. General Shorter moved restlessly. Several
minutes passed.

The panel opened.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Tucker was a short, rotund man. His close-cropped hair was graying,
although his face was unlined, with the smooth complexion of a child.
His irises were gray and gold.

General Shorter stepped forward and introduced himself.

"Come in."

The panel closed.

The two men stood. General Shorter glanced around for a chair.

"Small quarters," Mr. Tucker said. "If you like, sit there. I'll sit on
the bed."

They arranged themselves.

"Perhaps you don't remember me?" the general said. "We served
together--what, ten years ago?--for about two weeks on Avalon, I believe
it was."

"Yes, I thought that was the case. You have a good memory, General."

"Please," the general said, "just call me Max."

Mr. Tucker considered, without committing himself. He proffered a cigar.
The general declined.

Mr. Tucker lighted the cigar carefully, moving the flame several times
across the blunt end. He regarded the results without expression. "A
cigar should be properly lit, General," he said.

"Yes, yes, I suppose so," the general said. He paused to worry at a
wrinkle on his suit. "Good trip out?"

"Routine."

"New ship? I notice this is one of the new Balls."

"Mark Six."

"Ah, those. I've always liked the Mark Six. Solid construction. I've
been Destroyed maybe half the time in the Mark Sixes. Each one of the
Marks has its own personality--I've always thought so. I don't suppose
you remember the old Mark Two? That was a long time ago. I've been
around. We got lost in one once. It picked a pseudo-fault line and ...
well, never mind. Earth the same, I guess?"

"Hasn't changed."

"I don't know when I'll get back," the general said. The statement
seemed to dangle as though it were an unfinished question.

"The new detectors have put Miracastle on the fringe of things."

"I've followed the work," the general said. "I try to keep up. It
involves a new concept of mass variation, doesn't it?"

"It just about makes it uneconomical to colonize a two-stage planet any
more. Or to keep one going."

The general's eyelids flickered. His body moved beneath the wrinkled
folds of the surface suit. Cigar smoke curled in the still air.

Mr. Tucker said, "You must have been aware that it would not have been a
great loss to have evacuated Miracastle."

The general shuffled in silence. "Yes, sir, I knew the background. It's
part of my job to know things like that. You'll find, sir, that I have a
strong sense of responsibility. If it's part of my job, I'll know about
it."

General Max Shorter abruptly stood and for a moment was motionless, a
man deformed and diminished in stature by the ill-fitting surface suit.
Expressionless, he looked down, without psychological advantage, at the
seated civilian holding the partially smoked cigar.

Later the same day, Mr. Tucker and two of the three other members of the
Committee donned surface suits and, together with Captain Meford, the
cartographer assigned to Miracastle, they boarded the surface scout.

They arranged themselves in the uncomfortable bucket seats and strapped
in.

"Little early for an easy ride," Mr. Tucker commented.

"I've been out before," Captain Meford said laconically. It was his
usual manner.

"How long do you think it will take us to get there?"

"Between fifteen and twenty minutes, if I don't hit too much cross
wind."

Mr. Ryan, one of the other two civilians, commented, "A long time
between cigars, eh, Jim?"

The question was out of place and was ignored without hostility.

Mr. Ryan twisted uncomfortably. At length he said, apologetically,
"Dirty, filthy business. I wish it were over with."

"So do I," Mr. Tucker said.

Captain Meford activated the ramp and eased the scout out. It was
immediately buffeted by the winds.

"Sorry," he said. "It'll take a minute. Hold tight." The scout moved in
three dimensions, erratically. "Wow! Let's set it at about twenty-six
inches. Sorry. This will slow us down, but it will ease the bumps on
down draft. There. That's better. We're okay now, I think. I guess we
can settle back."

Thirty-five minutes later, they came to what was left of the alien city.

       *       *       *       *       *

Back in the Richardson dome, General Shorter had coffee, in his
quarters, with the remaining man on the Committee, a Mr. Flison. They
were going through the ritual of conversation.

"This is the first time you've been Destroyed then, sir," the general
said. "My first time was so long ago I've forgotten what it feels like."

"I was uneasy in advance," Mr. Flison said. "You read various
descriptions about the physical sensations. Intellectually, of course,
you draw a distinction, but emotionally you know that the only word
which applies is death--pure and simple. But there's no sensation. It
happens too fast. You don't even notice it."

Politely attentive, the general had leaned forward. "I don't think it
could be put better," he contributed. "That's very apt. You don't even
notice it."

Mr. Flison's eyes narrowed in speculation. They maintained the general's
own in unwavering focus. He did not acknowledge the compliment.

The general's eyes broke to one side. He moved nervously as though
physically to dismiss the tactical error of underestimating his
opponent.

"Since this is your first planet," the general said, "perhaps you'd like
to see something of the operation? Basically, we have nine Richardson
Domes here on Miracastle. Two are the living quarters--the other similar
to this. Right now domes Seven and Nine are the more important. They
contain the air-changing equipment. We are holding tightly to our
completion date, and these two--Seven and Nine--will be pulled out in
fifteen days. That is to say, they will, barring any serious
interruptions in our work. On schedule, I should point out."

The general poured coffee for himself. Mr. Flison politely declined.

"When you've been in the Corps as long as I have," the general resumed,
"the schedule becomes a part of you. Everything--" he held his hands
before him, fingers spread, palms facing, and drew them
together--"converges on that. It's that simple. Other planets are
waiting. In a society as complex as ours, a million--and I mean this
literally, sir--a million decisions must be reviewed if the schedule
falls behind. Delay of a critical item of equipment can necessitate an
unbelievably vast reassignment of personnel and supply patterns. A small
cause reverberates throughout the whole fabric of the space technology."

"General Shorter, I think perhaps you're being carried away a little.
I'm sure we have adequate procedures to accommodate minor variations in
equipment delivery dates. If we don't, the Lord help us: we'd have been
dead long ago."

The general was in the process of forming an immediate reply, but he
reconsidered. When he reached for the coffee, which by now was cool and
bitter, his hand was trembling.

The general licked his lips. "More coffee? No? Well, I didn't intend to
get off on this. I really wanted to ask if you'd like to inspect our
operations." He glanced at his time piece. "I could show you the present
shift operation in Dome Nine."

Mr. Flison rose. "No, General, I don't want to be of any bother. I
wouldn't want to interfere with your--work."




III


"City" is not necessarily descriptive: perhaps less so than the
application of Euclidean axioms to advanced geometry. Physically, it was
this:

1. Three dozen stone arches whose keystones were inverted bowls.

2. A smooth-walled recess in the sheer face of a cliff.

3. A level lip of rock, as precisely flat as though honed, from which
the arches seemed to grow.

"Is this all?" Mr. Tucker asked.

"Yes, sir," Captain Meford said.

Mr. Ryan came to the viewing section. "It looks," he said, "as though
the cliff were split down to here and then hewn away to leave the
structures there and the apron."

"We found no tools, sir. There were no tools here, nor with them."

"Nothing else at all?"

"They left behind some four hundred chips of stone, apparently numbered.
We have them in the dome. And there's a two-line inscription on one of
the arches. There's nothing else."

High above the men and the ship, the new wind sang in one of the
inverted bowls and fluttered lightly over the inscription. It, like the
face of the cliff, was oxidizing. Dust filtered down before the recess,
alien symbols falling. Life is the recording angel of time. Without
life, all ceases.

"Dust," Mr. Tucker said. "Dust ... dust ... more dust. Soon the dust
will be over everything. When the wind is gone, it will be there to hold
our footprints."

Inside the air-conditioned scout, the men shivered.

"How did you come to find them?" Mr. Ryan asked.

"I saw the constructions from the photos, sir. This had been missed by
the mapping party. It's easy enough to see why when you see the
pictures."

"This the only one?"

"Yes, sir."

"How can you be sure of that, Captain Meford? It's a large planet."

"I had one of the machines scan the remaining maps for geometrical
patterns, sir."

"Isn't that done routinely?" Mr. Tucker asked rather sharply.

"Yes, sir. But you see, we've always expected that if we were ever going
to encounter intelligent life on a planet, it would be rather
widespread. Accordingly--and this is the routine procedure, sir, used,
as far as I know, by all contact parties--we ran through a statistically
significant sample of the terrain. There was nothing on Miracastle out
of the ordinary. There was the typical, low-order vegetable matter,
about what we always find. It was a very typical planet, sir."

The third man from the Earth Committee, Mr. Wallace, seldom spoke. When
he did, his voice was mild, and there was a sense of child-like wonder
in his tone. "The natives?" he asked.

"They ... had fled when we discovered the city."

"Where did they flee to?" Mr. Wallace asked.

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Meford glanced upward. Other eyes followed to end just below the
edge of the view screen. Above stood the sheer face of the cliff. Clouds
roiled below the summit, obscuring it from view.

"There is a long sloping plateau up there, and a series of natural caves
back in the next cliff face," Captain Meford said. This did not seem
adequate. He continued: "Most of the air-changing activity starts in the
low-lying areas, at first around the dome positions. It advances along
an elevation front, gradually drifting up. Little tongues are carried up
in advance by the heated currents. The aliens retreated before it. On
the plateau you can see the sentries. I guess they posted themselves
there, at intervals, between the edge and the new caves, to define the
limits of safety. They died there. Six of them. The rest, several
hundred, reached the caves. They are dead, too."

"I see," Mr. Wallace said.

"When you first discovered them--?" Mr. Ryan asked after a moment.

Captain Meford hesitated.

Mr. Tucker said: "I believe one of your men killed himself last
night--wasn't it? A technician? I was told he felt you could reverse the
air-changing equipment in time to save the aliens. I understand that was
very much on his mind for the last week or so."

"I'm not too familiar with the man, sir. He was on Captain Arnold's
shift, I believe."

"Captain Meford," Mr. Ryan insisted, "when did you say you first
discovered the aliens?"

Captain Meford hesitated. The others waited.

"They were then scaling the cliff, sir."

"And General Shorter, was he told of this immediately?" Mr. Ryan asked.

"I don't know when the general was told."

"You discovered them?"

"Yes, sir. I ... you see, at the time the winds completely prohibited
air traffic. As you know, the air scouts are not stable enough until ...
later. Later, I ... Yes, sir. I discovered them."

"Did you then inform the general?"

"No, sir. I informed the duty officer."

"Did he inform the general?"

"I don't know."

"Why didn't you tell the general?" Mr. Tucker asked.

"I was then in communication with Captain Geiger, and I felt he...." The
sentence trailed away.

"Would tell the general?" Mr. Tucker prompted. "Well, did he?"

"I believe he did, sir," Captain Meford said. He let out a long breath.

"May we see the aliens?" Mr. Ryan asked.

"I wouldn't advise it, sir," Captain Meford said. "High flights are
still very risky because of the wind velocities."

       *       *       *       *       *

After the evening meal, General Shorter called Captain Arnold aside.
"Mind if I go over to Nine with you?" he asked. "The air around here
is--well, the fact of the matter is, I'd like to get away from them for
awhile."

"Of course not, sir," Captain Arnold said.

"We'll call it an inspection. Which might be a good idea at that. With
these people running around trying to interfere with my schedule. Poking
around. Asking questions. Taking men away from their work, basically."
He tapped his teeth with his right thumb in reflection. "I'd better
check up on all the domes tonight, just to be sure."

"Yes, sir."

"I wouldn't want anything to go wrong because they're here."

In the dressing quarters, they donned surface suits and exited through
the locks to Miracastle. In the area immediately beyond the Dome, the
solidly positioned connection rails radiated away. The general gestured
for the captain to lead.

The wind buffeted them. Inside the surface suits it was quiet.

"David?" the general asked.

"Yes, sir?" Captain Arnold said. He was fastening his safety line in the
keyed slot. He fumbled with it for a moment before the wind.

"You on suit communications?"

"Yes, sir." Captain Arnold straightened and moved forward. The general
replaced him and dropped his safety line in place with practiced
efficiency.

Captain Arnold, surrounded by dust devils, became a distant, indistinct
bulk. His motions were ponderous. The general could no longer see his
face or his expression.

"I do not entirely understand this, David," the general said
conversationally. "The investigation. I thought I had powerful friends
in the Corps. Though a man makes enemies." The general lurched awkwardly
over the broken surface of Miracastle, drawing the safety line taut. He
moved toward the connection rail again. "A general is separated from
much of his command. Some of the technical refinements are too
involved--and, of course, men hide their feelings." Once again he
struggled with the wind, turning slowly at the end of the safety line:
held from the devouring anger of the planet only by the slender
umbilical cord from the stars. "General Grisley, now. I think he's
sixteen star, in headquarters. He was a politician. He came up fast. In
fact, he was my adjutant a few years ago. He was always a man to hold a
grudge."

Captain Arnold made no reply.

"You know how politics is in the Corps."

Dome Nine rose from the swirling mist before them. The wind seemed to
increase in fury. And still, inside the suits, there was the sound only
of labored breathing and the general's voice.

"These natives," the general said. "They were very primitive, David."
Neither could see the other's face. "I can't think of them as
intelligent at all. I feel they were very low on the evolutionary
ladder. I wouldn't call it a city, as I've heard it called. Natural
formation, more likely. Nature plays strange tricks."

       *       *       *       *       *

They were at the lock of Dome Nine.

Inside, the general removed his helmet. "David," he said, "I've been
meaning to talk to you for some time now. You've got a good career in
front of you in the Corps. You're going to move up. With a few breaks,
right to the top. I'm just now writing up my evaluation for your files.
I plan to give you a very fine recommendation, Captain. Normally, I
don't talk about this sort of thing, but I thought you might like to
know."

"Thank you, sir," Captain Arnold said uneasily, opening his surface
suit.

"Well, let's inspect the area, Captain."

The inspection was perfunctory. As he always did, the general paused at
the pile monitor and watched, in the Dante screen, the virtually
indescribable reactions being sustained far beneath the surface: molten
rock flowing and smoking. Orange, blue and white flames danced as though
in agony in the great, expanding cavern, danced and merged and vanished
and reappeared in an ever-changing pattern.

Back at the locks, the general bid Captain Arnold good-by and turned to
leave. Then, as if an afterthought came forward, he turned back.

"David, oh, David!"

"Yes, sir."

"Perhaps you remember a conversation we had a few weeks ago? I called on
you for some technical advice." He held his helmet in his hands.

"When was that, sir?"

"Oh, it was about the technical feasibility of reversing the
air-changing equipment, I believe. As you know, I can't be up on all the
technical, purely detailed procedure, for all phases of the operation.
That's what we have experts for." The last statement was unusually
jovial. "I believe you told me, David, that the process was too far
along at that time. Perhaps you remember?"

"General Shorter, when was that?"

"I thought you would remember, David. I'm sure it was you. Yes, I'm
almost positive it was. But if you say.... Well, David, it wasn't quite
so much as exactly a statement like that. But that was the general
meaning of it, you know, stripped of all the technical language. You
have to take it in the over-all context. That was the meaning I got." He
laughed tactfully. "You're like lawyers, all you technicians. You answer
everything yes and no at the same time. I hoped you'd remember the
conversation. I got that idea from it." The general waited. "Well,
David--don't look like that--it's not at all important. Just trying to
refresh my own memory. It's not important, really.... Good night,
David." He placed the helmet over his head.

"Good night, General."

Methodically the general completed his rounds. He laughed often and
joked with the men and seemed in exceptionally good spirits.

Back in his own quarters, he brought out his diary. With a weary sigh,
he sat down to it. He glanced at his timepiece. The day extended
backward almost beyond memory but it was not yet late.

After thumbing the diary listlessly for several minutes--pausing now and
then at a paragraph--he began to write. He put the events of the day
down precisely in their logical sequence.




IV


The Committee took over the dining area when the general left for his
tour of inspection. While the steward's department was preparing coffee
for the interviewees, now assembling in the corridor, the four members
of the Committee arranged themselves at the larger of the tables.
Notepaper lay before them.

Mr. Tucker lighted a cigar and fingered it. "A rather good meal," he
said.

The others nodded.

"I may as well start off, while we're waiting," Mr. Wallace said. "I'll
summarize my somewhat contradictory observations.

"Superficially, the cultural level of the natives appeared quite
primitive. The absence of tools would normally be indicative. On the
other hand, the city was carved from rock in a way so as to suggest a
very sophisticated technology. And writing, while apparently not
practiced to any considerable extent, was known--or, if not writing as
we understand it, some advanced decorative technique. We've found two
lines of it, at least.

"Again superficially, the city would suggest a nomadic tradition, but
for its craftsmanship. It seems independent of any obvious supply of
food and their equivalent of water, if any. Nor were any provisions in
evidence for the disposal of waste products. Yet the city had the
appearance of age and continual usage. If you notice, the floor of the
recess was worn unevenly toward the center by what I should guess to be
the traffic of several centuries.

"The thought naturally occurs that the aliens were the rather decadent
relics of a highly developed technological civilization existing on the
planet in the not too distant past. Yet Miracastle offers no evidence
for the existence of a prior technology--no ruins, no residual
radioactivity from atomic operations. In short, the city has no apparent
genesis in the past.

"The alternative arises: perhaps the natives were not natives at all,
but immigrants or colonists like ourselves. Yet the age of the city
contradicts this.

"Perhaps there is a simple explanation, although it does not occur to
me. But I do have this feeling. The city was utilitarian. To me, it
calls to mind one of those exquisite etchings of Picasso. The severe
economy of line suggests simplicity. Yet, on further inspection, you see
that each line contributes to a rather bewildering variety of
perspectives. I strongly suspect that the city and the people of
Miracastle will remain one of the great, unsolved mysteries of the
universe."

Mr. Wallace was finished with his remarks.

Mr. Ryan nodded. "Perhaps I'm deficient in sensibilities, but I find
that the most ... agonizing ... thing of all is not ever to be able to
know what these people were like. It's almost as if some part of us had
been lopped off, isn't it? What did the people of Miracastle think
about? What was their philosophy of life? What was their social
organization? What was their ultimate goals? When you realize how much
we learned of ourselves from an examination of our own primitive
cultures, the sense of loss really comes home. Think how much more we
could have learned of ourselves by acquiring the perspective of a truly
alien culture. It's almost as if we could really understand ourselves at
last if we could only understand a totally alien culture ..."

"Well, that's gone," Mr. Tucker said. The words were brittle and
discrete. They hung in memory and the listeners waited as though for an
echo of something shouted into a canyon. The echo did not come.

They were silent. Grief is the final knowledge of time. When one first
learns that it can never be turned backward upon itself to permit the
correction of past sins and the rightings of wrongs transfixed and
forever unalterable. Grief is the frantic, futile beating of hands
against a barrier without substance, both obscenely unreal and yet the
only reality. Grief is the knowledge that we cannot step backwards
before the death of loved ones and see those precious half-forgotten
dream faces once again. Grief is the knowledge that time is immutable.

Outside the Richardson Dome, the wind was changing. It could now neither
support the life that was nor the life that would be, and it howled in
melancholy and insensate anguish its loneliness and longing to the
eternal and ever-changing pattern of the stars.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Committee concluded their interviews with an old-line corporal. He
had just short of thirty years service and had several times traveled
the two-way escalator of non-commissioned rank from master sergeant to
private. He was perhaps typical of many of the older soldiers. His love
of the Corps was expressed by his loyalty to it; his hatred of the Corps
was expressed by his inability to abide by its regulations.

"You knew Sergeant Schuster very well?" Mr. Tucker asked.

"He was a new man," the corporal said. "He got on just before lift-off.
A week, two weeks, something like that. I knew him, I guess. He was one
of them kind that was always thinking. And like you know, sir, thinking
ain't too good for a soldier. I've known a lot of guys like that in my
time. You know what I mean? They're not cut out for the Corps."

"He talked to you quite a bit?"

The corporal turned to face Mr. Ryan. "He was always talking, sir. He
was a regular nut. I thought for a while he was queer. He had all those
crazy ideas."

"Like what, Corporal?"

"Oh, like--well, you know." The corporal hesitated and rummaged his
memory without conspicuous success. "Sunsets," he said rather
emphatically. "Talked about sunsets. Talked about just _anything_.
Called me out back on Earth to look at a sunset once, I remember."

"What did he think about killing the natives?" Mr. Wallace asked.

The question alerted the mechanism which produced the almost-Pavlovian
loyalty response.

"We didn't kill no natives," the corporal said. "They just died when we
changed the air. Tough."

He looked at Mr. Wallace and then into the silence around him.

"Well ... well, let's see. I guess you'd say that sort of got to him. I
mean, you know, he thought it was--" the voice became distant, as though
describing a fantastic event which he could not relate to anything in a
rational environment--"he thought it was _his_ fault. You know how some
of these guys are. I used to have a platoon once, you know. And they
say--" He twisted his mouth and changed his voice to a childish whine.
"What _for_?" The voice reverted to normal. "They don't ask for any
reason. They just ask. I say to them, I say, 'God damn it'--excuse me,
sir--'I told you to do it, ain't that enough?' Well, this Schuster, sir,
he worried all the time. He got so he cut himself shaving. Damnedest
thing. Oh, hell, maybe for the last week, every morning, he came out a
bloody mess. Patches of toilet paper all over his face. 'I can't shave,'
he'd say. 'My God, I can't shave.' He wasn't nervous, either. His hands
were okay. They didn't shake. It's just that he couldn't shave. Like I
say, he was a nut."

No one spoke for a moment, and the corporal twisted uncomfortably.

Then Mr. Tucker said, "Well, Corporal, tell me this, please."

"Yes, sir."

"What's your own personal impression of General Shorter?"

"The old man?" the corporal asked in surprise. "He's okay."

"Feel free to discuss this," Mr. Flison said. "We'd like to know,
really, what your opinion is."

"Like I say, he's okay. He's got a job to do. You know, he busted me
once. General Shorter personally, I mean. Hell, I don't hold it against
him, though. He's got his job to do, I got mine. I wouldn't say anything
against General Shorter, no, sir. He's a soldier. I mean, you know ...
he's a soldier."

After the corporal was dismissed, Mr. Tucker said, "Well, gentlemen, I
guess we've about wrapped it up here. I think this is enough. Anybody's
mind changed? I don't think we need any more, do you?"

Mr. Wallace sighed heavily. He looked down at his hands.

       *       *       *       *       *

General Shorter was still at his writing desk when he was notified that
Mr. Tucker would like to see him first thing in the morning.

"Another day of it, eh?" the general asked the sergeant who brought the
message.

"No, sir. From the other crew, I hear they're planning to leave
tomorrow."

The general's face relaxed. His smile reflected weary tolerance. "Had
enough in one day, have they? It's about time they let us get back to
work."

After the sergeant left, the general wrote a final paragraph:

"I've just been informed the 'investigation' is completed. In record
time, it seems. They finished up in the mess tonight, talking to some of
the men. So what did it all really accomplish? They took a long ship
that could better have been used somewhere else. Half my men are down
with the virus. They almost cost me my schedule. And to what end? Just
another piece of paper somewhere. Put Miracastle on the scale against
some nice, heavy report and see which way the scale tips."

The general closed the diary. It was late now. He was very tired.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Tucker, after breakfast, knocked on the general's door.

"Come in," General Shorter called.

The civilian entered. The general dismissed the orderly with a nod. "And
I'll need some clean towels for tonight," he called. His voice was
hoarse.

"Yes, sir."

The door closed. The two of them were alone.

"Sit down. Excuse the cold. Got it last night. What do you say to a
brandy?"

"Don't let me stop you."

"I never drink alone."

"Perhaps you'd better," Mr. Tucker said.

The general had paused just short of the cupboard. He turned slowly. "In
that case, I'll make an exception, this once." He poured. "Just what did
you mean by that, sir? Let's get to the point."

"General Shorter, we're going to have to ask you to come back with us."

The general bent slightly forward. His lips were partly open, as though
he were listening to hear a second time.

"Why," he said, "I've too much work to do, sir. I'm afraid that's out of
the question. It's just not possible at all."

Mr. Tucker waited.

General Shorter poured himself another brandy. His back was to the
civilian.

"There's nothing more important, right now, than my job here," he said.
He drank the brandy in a single gulp.

"I don't see how it can wait, General," Mr. Tucker said.

The general's lips were dry. He closed his eyes tightly for a moment
against the alcohol and the cold. He licked his lips. "What's the formal
charge?"

Mr. Tucker bent forward. His voice was soft and curious, as though the
question were his final effort to understand something that puzzled him
for a long time. "What do you think it is, General?"

"What could it be?" the general said sharply. "I follow orders, sir. I
was sent out here to make this planet suitable for human habitation.
This is exactly what I have been doing." His voice was growing
progressively more angry and with an effort he curbed himself. "Put
yourself in my position. I did what any field commander would have done.
It was too late to stop it. I've got--It's a question of the limits of
normal prudence. A matter of interpretation, sir."

The general was in the process of pouring still another drink. The
slender brandy glass broke under the force of his anger. He opened his
palm. Blood trickled from between his fingers.

The general looked up from the hand and fleeting annoyance came and went
before he was recalled to present reality. His eyes met Mr. Tucker's.

Mr. Tucker suddenly shivered as if touched by a wind from beyond the
most distant stars, a wind which whispered: The aliens are among us.

"General," Mr. Tucker said, "the formal charge is murder."






End of Project Gutenberg's General Max Shorter, by Kris Ottman Neville

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK GENERAL MAX SHORTER ***

***** This file should be named 23571.txt or 23571.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/3/5/7/23571/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
