The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Short Life, by Francis Donovan

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Short Life

Author: Francis Donovan

Release Date: December 20, 2007 [EBook #23928]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SHORT LIFE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, David Garcia and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net






[Illustration]






THE SHORT LIFE

_The Alien had to choose--and fast--a living entity to act through.
He chose ... but he made one error...._


BY FRANCIS DONOVAN

Illustrated by Rogers




I


An embryo stirred very slightly in the warm, dark womb that held it.
Chemical stimuli and minute pulses of energy that were forming the
complex proteins faltered. A catalyst failed briefly in its task, then
resumed, but the damage had been done. A vital circuit remained
incomplete, a neural path blocked. Time passed....

       *       *       *       *       *

An embryo gathered in a metal womb, controlled potential building to
titanic birth. A thread of wire melted under a breath of energy and
a tiny, glowing light winked out. A rodentlike maintenance robot,
scurrying to an unimportant repair task, saw no warning signal and
crossed a control panel from behind at the moment that a relay closed
automatically. Obliterated, the robot only briefly interfered with the
proper functioning of the machine, but the damage had been done. For
a split second at a critical moment, a mighty engine reacted out of
control. Time passed....

       *       *       *       *       *

An embryo jerked convulsively under a frightful onslaught, strained for
life in a crowded womb while the mother's convulsions threatened it with
death. The convulsions passed, the mother lived, the womb emptied, but
the damage had been done, a record had been cut. Time passed....




II


There are logical limits for any pretense--limits beyond which the
pretense becomes demonstrably absurd. Mother-love enabled the woman
Helen Douglas to evade logic up to and beyond the point of absurdity,
but even mother-love is not proof against the turmoil of the
subconscious. A survival factor pried up a safety valve, and Helen
Douglas found herself suddenly face to face with the admission that
she had so desperately suppressed. She reacted with a terrible storm
of weeping that shook the bed and was watched with complete disinterest
by the dry-eyed imbecile beside her. Two-year-old Timothy Wainwright
Douglas, congenital idiot, couldn't care less. It was nothing to him
that his mother had at last faced the ugly knowledge that her only child
should have been born dead. It was less than nothing to him that she
could almost find it in her heart to wish him dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Release from the crowded womb brought no immediate awakening from the
long sleep of gestation, for a sense of identity comes only slowly to
the very young, the new-born. He did not realize that his intellectual
awakening, gradual as it seemed to him, was really extraordinarily
rapid, a matter of only two or three weeks after birth. To him, with no
frame of reference, it was a time of mystery that was not recognized as
mystery. At first there was only Warmth and Hunger, for which he had no
names but which he recognized by their presence or absence. There was
the satisfying of Hunger, Sleep, and the return of Hunger. Had he been
inclined to philosophy at that tender age, he would have considered the
cycle a complete and satisfying one. In a few days, however, there were
longer periods between the satisfying of Hunger and the coming of
Sleep--a sort of comfortable, full-stomached reverie that was the
beginning of the end.

With astounding precocity of which he was completely unaware, he began
rapidly sorting and cataloguing noises that had previously conveyed no
meaning. He now learned to associate certain sounds with certain sources
and place others under tentative listings while awaiting further data.
Smells received the same treatment as noises and often the two could be
related. A certain smell and a certain gobbling sort of noise were often
followed by a frightening swoop as he was lifted, but his eyes were not
yet focused and could give him little information as to the manner or
purpose of lifting.

In his fourth week of life he began to be troubled. His little handful
of memories centered around a growing and not entirely subjective
awareness of himself as an individual. Clearly, life could be divided
into "me" and "not me." To have arrived at that conclusion twenty-odd
days after birth was an incredible achievement. His mind was quick,
but it could not reason further without a basis for logic, a system
of reference, learned data from which further data could be inferred.
There was uneasiness in him, but no warning of danger; only a stirring
of memory that tried to rise to the conscious level. Wonderingly he
prodded the memory a little, as an inquisitive child pokes at a
slow-burning firecracker or a wary pup approaches its first cat. Like
the sharp crack of a squib, the quick spit of a cat, the memory erupted
and flung him back on his mental heels.

He felt a sensation that he knew was death though he had no name for
it, and his immature defenses sprang into action, tried in vain to block
the memory, to thrust Death back into its Pandora's Box. He impeded the
flood by an infinitesimal fraction of a second, and then full awareness
came and with it an understanding of the terrible thing that had
happened, the thing that he?--yes, _he_ had done.

The fledgling identity of "me" and "not me" sank forever into
submergence, never to rise again.




III


When he was almost four, Timmy spoke his first words. He said clearly
and matter-of-factly, "I want that one, Helen."

His mother's mouth slowly opened while her face turned gray with shock.
The buckling of her knees in cataplexy forced her to sit down heavily
on a kitchen chair not cushioned for such descents, but she was hardly
aware of it. Timmy, seated on the kitchen floor and surrounded by
half-grown pups owned by a neighbor, screwed his head around to glance
at her impatiently over his shoulder.

"I want that one," he repeated confidently, and pointed to the most
ill-proportioned of an ill-conceived litter of mongrels. Helen raised
shaking hands to her face, and screamed.

The quick scrape of a chair in the living room and the sound of hasty
footsteps glissading on the throw-rug in the hall heralded the approach
of Timmy's father. The doorway filled with flexing muscles that flexed
in vain, but somewhat at a disadvantage by the strictly static tableaux.
Helen sat at the table, her staring eyes fixed on the child who looked
back in blank astonishment. Even the pups were motionless, having
cowered in alarm at Helen's scream.

"What's the matter?" Timmy's father asked.

His voice was a spur rudely galvanizing her into action, into an awkward
convulsion that landed her on her knees beside Timmy. She gripped his
little shoulders with fierce intensity and almost glared into his eyes.

"Say it again, Timmy--_say it again_!" She looked around wildly.
"He spoke, Jerry, as clear as anyone! He said 'I want that one,' and
pointed! Timmy ... darling ... _angel_ ... say it again!"

Timmy's face twitched uncertainly, giving the effect of a confused play
of expressions. For a moment he looked as though he would cry, but then
the crumpled, puckered lines magically smoothed. The eyes, dull and
blank, stayed dry. He made a senseless noise and slobbered in doing so.
His jaw was slack, his chin wet.

Jerry felt slightly sick.

"Get up, Helen." He lifted her somewhat roughly to her feet, overrode
her babble. "You're frightening the ... the child."

"He _talked_, Jerry ... you heard him! _Didn't_ you hear him!"

"Come in the living room and sit down." She was half-carried, her
protests ignored. There was a certain grim determination in his actions
as he made her comfortable. "Now we're going to face it, Helen. It can't
be put off. Timmy was heart-wrenching enough by himself, but I've had to
watch the change in you in the past few months. You're getting ... well,
we'll call it hysterical. I could cut off my arm for saying this, honey,
but, if we keep Timmy any longer, you'll just have a breakdown, that's
all!"

She moaned softly, rocking back and forth in misery's timeless attitude.
"I can't help it, Jerry. I ... just ... can't ... help it."

"I know, I know. So I'm making the decision for both of us, here and
now, and on my head be it. Timmy will have to be put away this week,
permanently."

"No!" Her wail was more of anguish than of protest.

"Yes! I can't stand coming home from work day after day to find you've
manufactured some new evidence to delude yourself there's hope for him.
One day he took the spoon in his hand to feed himself, another day he
focused his eyes and looked around the room as though he was really
taking everything in--"

"You said you believed me!"

"So I did--at first. So I'd sit around all evening watching him,
_willing_ him to do something intelligent. And did he? No. Hon, I don't
want to be unkind to you or to him, but I can't stand seeing you delude
yourself, making yourself sick. We've both taken more than is good for
us. We're at the end of our rope. We've got to face it now and do what
should have been done long ago. It's not as if Timmy will miss us. He
doesn't even know us, after four years!"

She gathered her forces, shut her eyes tight as if to deny his
existence. "It's no use, Jerry, I won't do it. I am _not_ deluding
myself. I heard him speak. If that was illusion, it was so real to me
that you may as well put us both away together!"

"Hysterical hallucinations--"

"Jerry, don't say that again. _I heard him say 'I want that one,
Helen!_'"

"You see! Already you're embroidering what you heard! Now he's
calling his mother by her first name. Honest, Helen, can't you see how
ridiculous you're being? If you'd thought he said da-da or goo-goo
I could have gone along with the gag, but to have him jump the whole
learning stage and come out with a complete, concise, explicit little
sentence ending familiarly with your Christian name--"

"I don't know how he did it, but he _did_ it."

Jerry rose from his seat beside her, his lips tight. "I can't honestly
say I love my own child, hard as I've tried. But I can say that I love
his mother. If I have to bankrupt myself to give Timmy proper care in
an institution, then I'll do just that, and do it gladly. But I won't
falsely place his interests above yours. He was born an idiot and he
will live and die an idiot. Nothing can change that. Timmy goes, and
that's final."

He clamped his mouth shut and turned toward the kitchen where he knew
his son sat, a stupid lump that couldn't even crawl of its own volition.
The stupid lump stood firmly in the doorway, an uncertain, placating
smile on its lips, a pup cradled in the slender arms.

"Jerry? I want _this_ one."




IV


By Timmy's sixth birthday, only his parents' adamant attitude had
saved him from becoming a side show. Once the initial household uproar
had died down and some degree of general sanity been restored, Helen
and Jerry had another bad fright. They had grudgingly allowed Clancey,
the family sawbones, to call in a psychologist friend, Philip Warwick.
The combined efforts of these two to find an explanation for Timmy
resulted in complete chaos, with Timmy suffering violent and erratic
lapses into complete idiocy for varying lengths of time. Standard tests
meant nothing, unless mutually exclusive results could be accepted as
meaningful in themselves. At length, Timmy suffered a relapse of such
duration that the parents became panic-stricken and quietly rebelled.
It was obvious that he needed an atmosphere of peace and quiet.
Confusion, excitement, or the concentrated attention of several adults
simply threw him into a relapse.

The break came when Clancey called at the house and found it empty,
deserted. He traced them to a new neighborhood where they had rented a
house with a peaceful, walled garden. They were not pleased to see him,
but Clancey was a psychologist of sorts himself and a working agreement
was arrived at whereby he and Warwick could drop in frequently as
friends and quietly observe Timmy, chatting with him when they could
win his confidence and submitting him to whatever tests they could
adequately disguise. But under pain of permanent excommunication from
the Douglas menage they were not to discuss him with outsiders in such
a way as to either identify him or draw attention to him. Timmy was to
be allowed to set his own pace under their obliquely-watching eyes.
He was not to become a subject for newspaper comment, for the speculation
of strangers, or for the heated discussion of learned gentlemen calling
each other liars in six syllables. For Timmy was something new under
the sun.

Two years of observation gave Clancey and Warwick an impressive file of
notes on him, and they were prone to sit after office hours with it on
the desk between them, giving it morose glances. They were not happy.
Sometimes, as now, they concluded an evening visit by sitting in
Clancey's or Warwick's car parked outside the Douglas fence, holding an
impromptu post-mortem on an intellectual corpse that had come to life
in complete defiance of all the rules. They didn't notice the stealthy
movement of one of the fence-boards, nor the small form that snaked
through the shadows of concealing shrubbery until it was near the open
window of the car.

"Take word-association, Clancey. I had a few minutes with him this
evening before you got here, so I started him on a 'game' where we took
turns in saying a word and trying to guess what the other would reply.
I believe he thought I was rather a simpleton and needed humoring.
Anyway, I tried him with 'home' and got a delayed response. It's
happened before. Apparently the concept of home is tied to some deeper
disturbance." There was a slight, uneasy movement from the listening
figure. "Well, linking home and family, on my next turn I shot 'mother'
at him. There was an immediate flash of confusion in his eyes and again
a delayed response before he blurted 'Mom.' Something else had been on
the tip of his tongue, but he choked it back and selected what seemed
to him a more suitable reply.

"Now, we both know from two years' systematic observation that Helen is
as well-balanced a mother as you're likely to find. I'm quite sure she
has no unsuspected bad habits or traits that are leaving sensitive spots
in Timmy's mind, making him flinch at the association, nor is there some
long-standing or unresolved conflict in their relations. Yet 'home' and
'mother' both invoke blocks that inhibit response until consciously
overcome, or invoke images that he wishes to conceal lest they betray a
secret. I doubt very much whether anything that happened in his first
four years could have left a deep impression on the completely imbecilic
mind he is _assumed_ to have had then. That leaves the past two years--"

       *       *       *       *       *

    _(Confirmation) Game/not game.... Should data have predicted
    test? (Indecision) Possibly ... review later. So much to learn
    ... confusion inevitable. Next time respond "mother--three"
    (laughter) Invalid frame of reference--impossible work
    with/discard._

       *       *       *       *       *

"Something else interests me there, Phil. You suggest he selected,
deliberately, what seemed an appropriate response to 'mother.' Did you
take the next logical step and try 'father?'"

"Yes."

"And did he anticipate it?"

"I'm sure he did. I see what you mean ... fairly sharp reasoning for a
six-year-old supposed to be mentally retarded. When I shot 'father' at
him he came back promptly with 'male-Douglas' almost like one word."

"Got the sex and identity right. What's wrong with that?"

"There's nothing 'wrong' or 'right' about it. I was hoping for some clue
as to how his mind works. Maybe I got it, but I don't know what to do
with it. I didn't expect a calmly objective cataloguing of the old man
as a 'male-Douglas.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

    _(Surprise) Where is error? Semantics? Sociology? Colloquial
    nuance? (Decision) Reject further word-games._

       *       *       *       *       *

"If that's a clue, Phil, you can have it." Clancey hauled a notebook
from his pocket and held it up. "Open this thing anywhere--anywhere at
all. It'll open at an unanswered question. At the age of roughly three
and one-half, a congenital idiot suddenly displays flashes of alert
intelligence. For forty-two months that child was content to sit on his
fanny and vegetate. Never crawled, never spoke, never played, seldom
even focused his eyes. Then one day his mother sees him study some
alphabet blocks with every appearance of curiosity. Awareness! For the
first time!

"Later, he suddenly reaches out his hand and piles the blocks in
a neat stack. Purposeful activity and perfect muscular control! No
trial-and-error, no baby hesitation with hand poised--just a sudden
assured, controlled action. Mama leaps for joy, junior relapses into
idiocy, and no one--including me--really believes mama when she says it
happened. This sort of thing goes on for several months--brief, erratic
flashes of extraordinary intelligence, considering the subject. Then, a
child who has never spoken a single word says clearly and politely,
'I want that one, Helen,' and a child who has never crawled puts his
feet under him and stands up steady as a rock. You tell me, Phil--how
did he do it?"

"Don't look to me for an answer. I'm only a lousy fifth-rate psychology
teacher, as of the day you brought Timmy into my life. And the curse of
Freud be on you for _that_ kindly act of professional assassination. The
answer is obvious, of course ... Timmy didn't and couldn't do what we've
seen him do with our own wide-open, innocent eyes. We are the victims of
a cunning hoax."

       *       *       *       *       *

    _(Amusement) Difficult to experiment unobserved. Action too
    precipitate/no choice. (Affection/laughter) "The world is so
    people." (Chill) Danger! Madness!_

       *       *       *       *       *

"How does any child learn to speak?"

[Illustration]

"Mainly by hearing others. Maybe Timmy learned the same way. Maybe he
listened, absorbing the meaning and sound of words, trying them out
in the silence of his otherwise vacant little noggin. Maybe his mind
awakened gradually to the realization that it was a prisoner in a
paralyzed organ, strait-jacketed by blocks or short circuits. Maybe he
spent his forty-two months of vegetating driving against those blocks
until he partially broke them down and could speak. Maybe."

"And without ever having shaped his lips or tongue to intelligent
sounds, he speaks fluently at the first try?"

"Why not? Any kid that will start out by addressing its parents chummily
as 'Helen' and 'Jerry' and act naively surprised at the reaction,
obviously has rules of its own."

They ruminated in silence for a moment.

"It's too easy to talk vaguely about blocks and short circuits, Clancey.
How do you account for his completely erratic progress? Totally
unpredictable, with alternating periods of complete idiocy and high
intelligence?"

"Not totally unpredictable."

"Oh?"

"At least three things suggest a pattern. One is that his relapses,
though erratic, are becoming ever shorter in duration and more widely
separated."

"Yes, they are infrequent now and quickly ended."

"The second is that his grasp of the social pattern in which he
lives--his environment, in all its subtleties--is constantly improving."

"Right again. At the age of six he can in many ways match a bright lad
twice his age. Not in the subtleties, though--I disagree there. You can
give him a simple or even a not-so-simple explanation of something he
hears on the radio, dealing with it as a general theme in sociology,
and he seems to grasp the broad outline with little difficulty, but in
trivial matters of social behavior and human relations he's frequently
uncertain, as likely as not to pull a howling bloomer. Seems unusually
baffled and exasperated by some of the social mores he runs into, such
as the many tabu subjects for conversation, or taking your clothes off
whenever or wherever you feel inclined to. Poor Helen. She tries to
explain and he keeps doggedly after her with ruthless logic, obviously
trying hard to understand, and ... you know ... it's surprising how few
really sound, logical reasons there are for half the accepted
conventions that rule our lives.

"He's pinned me down several times to the conclusion that a certain
convention exists solely because people can't be trusted to behave
rationally without restraining rules. It's rather a dismaying conclusion
when it's dragged out in the open like that, and it seems to horrify
him. An ordinary kid learns by experience and accepts the rules with
sporadic rebellion, but our boy acts as if they were beyond
comprehension. And I think they are ... to him.

"The first crime drama he happened to see on TV turned him white as
a sheet, and when he stuck his nose out the gate a few days later and
watched some neighborhood kids playing cowboys and Indians with cap
pistols, he was sick on the grass. Explaining the 'glamour' of the early
west made it worse. He drew back from me as though I were contagious.
I had the feeling that he _pitied_ me. I wonder, sometimes, whether he
makes any real sense at all out of what is said to him. He's very slow
to interpret the shades of expression possible in voice and face. I feel
that potentially he has an exceptional mind, but the great difficulty is
communication."

"Like pulling his leg. It's too easy to be fun."

"Exactly, unless the little so-and-so is pulling ours, which I sometimes
suspect." Phil winced a little and rubbed his hand across his forehead.
"Getting a headache. Well, what's this third item you had in mind?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I can't pin it down, but I have a feeling there's a fairly obvious
physical factor linking the periods of relapse."

"Physical tiredness?"

"No ... the contrary, perhaps. At the start he got himself overtired
pretty often, as though he overestimated his endurance, but it didn't
seem to do him any harm. But if he awakens early or unexpectedly, there
may be an appreciable delay before he orients himself. Then he comes to
with a snap."

"Shock? Confusion of any sort?"

"Confusion, certainly. He didn't last five minutes when they tried
him in school, you remember. Howled for his dog, then sat on the floor
and dribbled. The confusion of being chucked into a group of noisy,
aggressive six-year-olds was too much for him. You remember he recovered
completely--almost instantly--when his mother packed him out of the
school."

"That reminds me of something else. I think that dog is some sort of a
symbol to him. Perhaps it has somehow become associated with security.
Try this for size: his mind is struggling to free itself from its strait
jacket; the dog captures his attention at a critical moment; the mother
screams when he speaks, frightening him, but the dog comes reassuringly
to his arms and subsequently--or did _he_ see it as a consequence?--his
parents make much of him. In other words, at the start of his rational
life the dog is a friendly element and the parents a frightening one.
The details of the association drop soon enough from his conscious
memory, but not from his subconscious. When the dog is with him, he
feels secure. When they are separated--it was not allowed into school
with him, of course--his symbol is gone and he panics, much as an
ordinary child panics if it loses its mother in a crowd."

"Slick, but not convincing. It touches on another peculiarity, however
... the way he wants that hound with him always, no matter where. Sleeps
with it on his bed, eats with it by his chair, even takes it to the
bathroom--by-the-by, he acquired the dog and bowel-control at the same
time, if you recall--but does he _like_ the dog? He never pets it to
speak of. Plays with it sometimes in a clumsy, disinterested sort of
way, but it's not the classic boy-dog relationship. If the dog is merely
a symbol, as you suggest--"

"I didn't say 'merely' a symbol. If I'm right, an association as strong
as this one could be devilish awkward and even dangerous, hooked to a
hair-trigger mind like his. What if something happens to the dog before
his dependence or whatever can be broken? Dogs get run over, you know,
and even their normal life span is short. Maybe we ought to try to break
it up ... damn this headache."

       *       *       *       *       *

    _(Regret/Despondency) Degraded to pain ... static/thick tongue.
    (Resignation) Delay, delay, delay ... break conversation. Time
    wrong._

       *       *       *       *       *

"You been bothered with headaches lately?"

"Off and on--nasty sort of twinges. If I trusted myself with a
carpenter, I'd let you give me a check-up. Well, let's cut this short.
What I was going to say ... let's see ... oh, since Timmy seldom pays
any attention to the dog, why does the dog stick to him like a shadow?"

Clancey grunted.

"That dog's no fool, stupid as he is. Clumsy, homely, and half-witted
enough to sit on a tack for five minutes before he howled--I've seen
him do just about that--he knows when he needs a protector. If it
weren't for Timmy, the hound would have been destroyed long ago as
an act of mercy. Helen and Jerry are resigned to him, of course, for
Timmy's sake, but have you noticed that the dog reacts much the same
as Timmy if they get separated? Casts about at once for a way to
rejoin him, and the longer he's delayed the more he panics. Maybe it's
a two-way switch--maybe Timmy and his dog are indispensable symbols to
each other!"

"You dream up any more lulus like that, you keep them to yourself.
Psychopathic dogs I draw the line at. Clancey, there is only one
conclusion to be drawn from these here solemn deliberations. Throw out
the textbooks and roll with the punches."

"Amen."




V


"There should be no deaths!"

Phil turned that one over in his mind, cautiously. A good deal of his
attention was needed for the task of nursing his old car along the ruts
of the dirt road, but the murmured exclamation impelled him to steal a
glance at the boy sitting beside him. This was the spring of Timmy's
tenth year--the sixth year of his friendship with "Uncle" Phil--and
those years had taught Phil more than he realized, if less than he had
hoped. He knew, for example, that the peculiar vacancy of Timmy's
expression at the moment implied deep thought rather than the complete
absence of thought that it suggested. That was a curious characteristic
that always made the man a little uneasy. Timmy's face was sometimes
radiantly, spontaneously expressive, the most sensitive of mirrors, and
sometimes it was rather mechanically expressive, but it was only
expressive in a positive sense. In moments of abstraction or daydreaming
there was no faraway look, no frown of concentration. Only blankness.

"The world would get a trifle crowded, you know."

Timmy leaped the gap easily to connect the two remarks, as Phil had
thought he would. "Oh, I didn't mean there should be no _death_. I was
thinking of something else. That man they found dead in the bush
yesterday."

"A man with a heart condition should never go hunting alone."

"Was it his heart, Uncle Phil?"

"His heart and his head both, if you ask me. He had a bad heart, all
right--I saw him have an attack once. You'd think a man like that would
have sense enough to avoid overexertion, but he lost his way and started
churning through swamp and brush in a straight line instead of looking
for the trail again. Must have acted like a moron, running until he
dropped."

"Would panic make a man do that?"

"It will make a man do any crazy thing imaginable, if he lets it get
the upper hand. There's only a few square miles of marsh and brush here,
with the town already crowding up against it. In a few years it will be
drained and the land used for industrial development and so on, then the
fools will have to find some other way to kill themselves."

"What do you mean?"

"Oh, every so often we have to turn out search parties and have a grand
shivaree looking for some idiot who usually turns up dead. Drowned
himself in two feet of water, or run himself ragged, or even put a
bullet through his head for no good reason. It's happened several times
in the past few years, so the place is getting a bad name it doesn't
deserve. Even the search parties often get themselves balled up and mill
around in circles, perfect examples of mass hysteria. Sometimes I get
fed up with the human race."

"I ... didn't know. I mean, about the ... deaths."

Phil laughed outright at the tragic tone.

"Oh, come now! Let's not be morbid about it! You wanted to drive out
here, remember."

"I still do, Uncle Phil. You and Dad were talking about how you used to
come out here every spring when you were kids, to collect specimens, and
it sounded like fun."

"So it was ... in those days. This old dirt road leads well in toward
the center. I used to spend a whole day hiking along here with my dog,
just rooting around and having a grand time. It's a pity we outgrow
the best things in life. Childhood scenes should be remembered, not
revisited. We can remember, but we can't recapture. A few years ago
I wanted some nature photographs so of course I came out here, sure
I'd get some beauties. I don't know. I started out in high spirits,
recognizing every rotted old stump along the way, but somehow it all
turned to ashes. I lost interest and turned back without taking a single
exposure--almost hating the place, in fact, as if it had let me down.
Strange that a place I loved as a kid should seem so empty and
uninviting now." He put on the brakes and looked around morosely.

"Don't you want to go any farther, Uncle Phil?"

"What for? You can see how overgrown the road is getting. I'll be lucky
if I can find a clearing to turn around. There's nothing of interest up
ahead, Timmy. The road dies out and then there's a couple of miles or so
of swamp and flies. It's getting dusk, too--"

"I'd like to get out for a minute."

"Oh. Well, O. K., but make it snappy."

He settled back listlessly as the boy climbed out, holding the door for
the dog to follow.

"Do you have to take that mutt ... never mind, go ahead."

       *       *       *       *       *

The boy wandered off to the side of the road and Phil listened to the
rustle of bushes, wondering at his own irritation. He felt ill at ease,
anxious to be away. He started as Timmy came up beside him on the left
of the car.

"That was quick."

"Yeah." The boy was holding a spray of flowering shrub and his hand
passed casually over the flowers in a light caress. "Say, hasn't this
flower got a sweet smell, Uncle Phil? Here, smell it."

"It's a pretty flower, Timmy, but that stuff has no perfume." He
accepted the branch automatically, lifted it to his nostrils.

Time stopped.

He thought he felt a thump against the side of the car, but the
impression faded before it was fully born. In a remote corner of his
mind the ticking of his watch sounded as a cold, measured rhythm, a
metronome with delusions of syncopation. He sat motionless, his forearm
resting on the steering wheel, the spray of blossoms caressing his
cheek, his mind stunned by the anaesthetic he drew in with each breath.
He was as one lost in thought, his eyes open but unseeing, observing but
not interpreting.

There was no sense of duration, of the passage of seconds or minutes.
There was only a dream in which, suddenly, a gentle mind made its
presence known. Concepts tapped lightly at his own mind and an automatic
process of interpretation winnowed and equated until a gentle voice
seemed to speak. The words were few, merely computed associations
keyed to understanding, and with them were perfectly and intimately
synchronized fragments of emotion and vision, softly washing over the
surface of his mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

    _(Urgency) Attend--attend! Challonari! Attend!_

       *       *       *       *       *

An impression of convolutions drifted through his mind--a shape,
perhaps, and a color. He felt no curiosity, and let the impression
drift. As a sunbather drowsing on a crowded beach, hearing the
background hum of the crowd and now and then a more clearly spoken
phrase, so he caught the edge of this communication. It was not for
him. A second mind entered ... _was_ it a mind? Yes, and yet very
different. It was strong, but limited--perhaps childlike, in some ways.
Alive after a fashion, it was receptive of emotion up to a point and
even capable of emotion--up to a point. It seemed an embryo mind, in
some ways well developed and in others with no potential whatever.

       *       *       *       *       *

    (RELIEF) IDENTITY BLURRED ... KNOW/NOT KNOW. (PERPLEXITY)
    NO PRECEDENT ... REQUIRE INSTRUCTIONS. (CONFIDENCE/TRUST)
    INSTRUCT PLEASE.

    _Instructions (Decisive) Sleep ... sleep ... sleep._

    (AGITATION) IDENTITY NOT MENTOR ... INSTRUCTIONS INVOLVE
    BASIC DISOBEDIENCE (CONFUSION/DISTRESS) CANNOT OBEY/DISOBEY
    ... DILEMMA INSOLUBLE TO CHALLONARI (PLEADING) REVISE
    INSTRUCTIONS PLEASE.

    _(Sorrow) Cannot revise. Identity mentor/not mentor.
    Challonari must obey identity._

    (GREAT AGITATION) ACCEPT IDENTITY MENTOR/NOT MENTOR ...
    CANNOT RECONCILE BASIC CONFLICTS ... CANNOT OBEY/DISOBEY
    (SUDDEN HOPE) LOGICAL DIVERGENCE PERMISSIBLE ... SIMPLIFY
    EXPLANATION PLEASE.

    _(Reluctance/hesitation) Intelligent identities here ...
    unable communicate ... Challonari. Result ... so. (Pain)
    Communication ... so. (Wave pattern)._

    (UNHESITATING) ILLOGICAL/REJECT ... COMMUNICATION DESCRIBED
    IMPOSSIBLY LIMITED ... INCONSISTENT/HIGH-LEVEL INTELLIGENCE.

    _Challonari limited ... must accept. (Command) Challonari
    sleep ... sleep ... sleep._

    (EXTREME AGITATION) CANNOT/MUST OBEY.

    _(Command/pity) Challonari has destroyed intelligence! Must
    sleep ... sleep ... sleep!_

    (AGONY ... HORROR/CONFLICT ... INSANITY).

    _Challonari! (No response. Grief) Ultimate withdrawal ...
    Challonari! Challonari!_

       *       *       *       *       *

Phil frowned, looking at his empty hand. It seemed to him that the spray
of flowers had inexplicably vanished. There was an elusive sense of
disorientation, a feeling of something overlooked. There was the tag-end
of a remembered grief. There was--

"You were right, Uncle Phil. They have no scent."

"What?" He looked around blankly, saw Timmy tossing the spray aside.
"Oh ... there it is. I thought I ... uh ... forget what I was going to
say." Two voices that were not voices--a dream, a despairing cry. An
elusive memory faded, faded. "There's mud on your cheek, Timmy. Did you
fall?"

"No ... that is, yes." Timmy scrubbed his cheek industriously.

"Make up your mind. Hurt yourself?"

"No, I'm all right."

"Well, whip around to the other side and hop in." Phil watched him in
the rear-view mirror and noted the hasty dab at moist eyes. It seemed
like a significant giveaway, but he couldn't imagine why. "Get your mutt
in and let's go."

"Come on, Homer." The boy settled himself with his dog between his feet,
and Phil laughed, his good spirits returned. He turned the car without
much trouble and they bumped back over the wagon ruts.

"Why do you call him Homer, Timmy?"

"Well, on account of the Odyssey, you know."

"I see. Some day when I have a clear mind and a couple of hours to
spare, you can explain the connection between Homer's Odyssey and a
flea-bitten semi-airdale."

They rode in silence for a while, until the dirt road changed to
pavement. Phil let his thoughts wander idly, thinking of nothing in
particular. Scraps of this and that seemed to float to the surface and
drift out of reach before he could capture them, had he been interested
in trying. One fragment somehow caught in an eddy and remained in sight
long enough to draw his attention.

"Challonari," he said, wonderingly, and almost ditched them as stabbing
pain shot through his temples. He held the wheel with one hand, the
other clapped for a moment to his brow. "Don't do that!" he snapped
angrily.

"W-what, Uncle Phil?"

"Sorry, Timmy, I didn't mean you. I don't know who I meant ... or,
rather, _what_ I meant, of course. I seem to be pretty confused tonight.
I even startled poor old Homer with that swerve. Get his muddy feet off
the cushions, Timmy." Homer sank back obediently to his usual place
between Timmy's feet, but his muzzle rested on the boy's muddied knees
and his brown eyes regarded both of them at the same time. Apparently he
was not convinced that the upheavals were over.

"What does 'challonari' mean, Uncle Phil?"

"Oh ... that. Just something that came to mind."

"But what does it mean?"

"I don't really know, Timmy ... something about convolutions or a
convoluted shape, I think, but that's only part of it. There are
connotations of ... of intelligence? No ... ridiculous. How can you have
a convoluted intelligence? But a brain is convoluted and to a greater or
lesser degree intelligent. The ... um ... the question of degree comes
into it, I think. A brain of limited intelligence, then, though damned
if I know why I think of it as limited. Challonari ... challonari. It's
not English and it doesn't sound like a technical word, but I must have
heard it in connection with something ... quite recently, too."

"Sort of rhymes with 'shivaree.'"

"Only sort-of, Timmy. You wouldn't make a good poet.
Shivaree--challonari. I mentioned shivaree when we were talking about
people getting lost in the bush, didn't I? Did it have some connection
with that? But how?"

"Maybe a sort of--mental trick?"

"Mental association rings a bell. Mental ... no, it's gone ... wait.
Teacher, trainer, instructor--a brain of limited intelligence would need
a teacher. Gentle teacher. Why gentle, for Pete's sake? But teacher and
pupil, that seems almost right. How much can one word mean? What am I
trying to recall, anyway? The meaning of a word? The _associations_
connected with a word? The association of ideas? Blast it, this is more
than tantalizing."

"Like when you wake up knowing you've had a dream, but you can't
remember any of it?"

"Uh ... yes, like a dream. A dream of--" The blood drained from his
face, leaving him gray and ashen. Timmy put out a hand in alarm, to
steady the wheel.

"Uncle Phil!"

"It's all right, Tim. It ... it's all right. I had a thought there that
kind of shook me." He relaxed with a shaky laugh, relief flooding his
face once more with color. "What a crazy thought! I could have sworn ...
well, never mind. But it shakes a man to learn what tricks his own mind
can play on him, all in an instant."

"What kind of tricks, Uncle Phil?"

"Oh, no you don't. If you hadn't egged me on with so many questions,
I'd have been spared a pretty nasty moment, you know that? Now let me
concentrate on driving for a change so I can get you home in time for
supper. O. K.?"

"But ... oh, O.K."

"Don't sound so disappointed, chum. It's been a pleasant drive, even if
nothing much happened."

"Yes, Uncle Phil. Even if ... nothing much happened."

       *       *       *       *       *

Spring changed to summer, and summer rolled into its final days. Phil
was in a gloomy frame of mind when Timmy's eleventh birthday came
around.

He watched Timmy draw a deep breath and--without puffing out his cheeks
as a child would do--neatly blow out the eleven candles on his cake.
It was an efficient, sprayless, perfectly-controlled operation, an
operation carried out happily and in high spirits, and it depressed
Phil. The "party" itself depressed him--a child's birthday party with
no children present, unless you counted Timmy! Phil and Doc, Helen and
Jerry, and Homer, the latter gray muzzled and stiff in the joints. That
was the roster of the guests and it could almost be called the roster
of Timmy's total acquaintances. His parents, his two friends, and a dog
that at its best had never seemed bright and now was obviously half-dead
with age. The boy was not normal, had no normal life, and gave no
indication of ever being likely to take a normal role in life. He was
a "disordered personality" if one could take comfort in a tag, but the
true nature, cause and cure of his divergence from "normal" would remain
unknown so long as his parents were afraid of tampering--

"Did you make a wish, Timmy?"

"Sure, Mom."

"Helen, honey--Tim knows that wishing when you blow out the candles is
kid stuff."

"And what is he but an eleven-year-old kid?"

[Illustration]

"He's too smart to believe in wishing, honey. Smarter than his old man,
eh, Tim?"

"I'll _never_ be as smart as you, Dad."

"That's my boy! But you don't kid me." Jerry turned to Phil and Clancey,
feigning indignation. "You know what happened the other day? I brought
home an old design that I dug out of the files and wanted to look
over--a helical gravity conveyer--and when Tim saw it spread out on the
table he said, 'That's the curve I was just reading about.' Now how did
that little so-and-so know enough to call it a curve? I figured he was
bluffing and got him to show me where he read about it, and the brat
showed me all right--in one of my old college textbooks! Of course I
only had to ask a few questions to find out that the college texts are
far beyond him, but imagine him dipping into them on his own and getting
anything out of them at all! How about that, young man? Explain
yourself."

Timmy hesitated, his eyes dark with uncertainty.

"You said I could," he blurted defensively. "Remember? Remember I asked
you one day and you said--"

"Your father isn't angry, Timmy," Helen laughed, hugging him. "Honest,
you get worried about the darnedest things! He's _proud_ of you! Don't
you know paternal boasting when you hear it?"

"Oh!" The shadow lifted and he laughed sheepishly. "I get it. It was
nuance of idiom that threw me. Calling me a brat and a so-and-so was
affectionate misdirection to conceal--" he broke off at their
expressions. Helen darted a quick look around and came to his rescue
again.

"Timmy-chile, where you git these heah high-falutin' _ex_-pressions
I'll never know. Hit shore ain't from you' low-talkin' pappy."

"Or from yo' low-comedian mammy. It's all right, son--you just sound
a bit bookish sometimes, that's all. Want some help with the dishes,
Helen?"

"You know darn well you'd divorce me if I said yes. You and Clancey take
Timmy in the front room and let him teach you something. Phil's just
crazy to help with the dishes. Aren't you, Phil?"

"The obvious answer is yes. O. K., let's go."

       *       *       *       *       *

They piled the dishes, joking and chattering until the sound of laughter
from the front of the house told them that the others were occupied,
then Helen put down the dish she was washing.

"Well, Phil?"

"Am I supposed to know what that means?"

"Phil, in plain language, is Timmy a ... a genius?"

"No, I don't think so. He's unaccountably bright in many ways and just
as unaccountably slow in others. I don't think genius comes into it at
all."

"That's what I think, too. Timmy's no genius ... yet he does things that
only a genius-type could do."

"Don't exaggerate, Helen. A sharp youngster living a secluded life and
studying more than he plays may be years ahead of other kids who go to
public schools."

"He's farther ahead than you think, Phil. I have Timmy in the house with
me all day, so maybe I know him better than Jerry does. He fooled Jerry
with that business of the college textbooks, but not me. I think that
for some reason Timmy doesn't want us to know how advanced he really is.
I think he slipped up when he commented on that helical what's-it, then
covered his slip by pretending he'd only leafed through the texts and
picked up a bit here and there. I know when that boy's fooling, and I
know he deliberately fluffed the questions Jerry put to him. Timmy's
just plain lousy when it comes to dissembling, you know, as if it was
completely foreign to him to lie. All right, all right, I know what
you're going to say--fond mama building mother's-intuition fantasy
around only child.

"Well, I kept an eye on him after that and about a week later Jerry
brought home some calculus dealing with a new design he's developing. He
ran into trouble with it and sweated and swore for an hour, while Timmy
sat and read and I kept peeking in the hall mirror that lets you see
into the front room from the kitchen. After a while Jerry left the room
to look for some tables he wanted and Timmy slipped over and looked at
his work, made a single notation, then dived back to his book as Jerry
returned. Jerry started to sweat over the thing again, then suddenly did
a double-take. He made some erasures and in five minutes had the whole
thing worked out, cursing himself for misreading a figure or something.

"Now don't tell me it was just a coincidence. Timmy hadn't seen that
problem before and it should have been miles over his head anyway, yet
he gave it a quick glance, spotted the error, changed the limits of an
integration and put Jerry on the right track. Just like that."

       *       *       *       *       *

Phil carefully massaged a dry plate even drier.

"So I stagger back and gasp, 'I can't believe it!' or something insane
but appropriate. The disturbing thing to me is that I not only _can_
believe it, I do believe it. Completely. I may as well tell you now
what I haven't yet told anyone else, that I've been methodically
tricking Timmy for some months past--in fact, ever since I began to
suspect that his knowledge of the sciences was, to say the least,
unusual for a boy his age. I probably led him into making that slip with
Jerry, identifying the curve. By giving him the impression that any boy
his age would know far more chemistry, math and physics than is actually
the case, I tripped him into revealing that he himself knows a very
great deal about them. Perhaps more than I do.

"I begin to suspect now that I didn't set my sights nearly high enough
in leading him on, but God alone knows where he could have learned. On
anything that could be related to the humanities he's very slow, but in
the physical sciences he's out of this world. His secluded life--unable
to mix with other kids, go to shows, games, or do anything that gets
him into crowds--gives him a very limited background for understanding
his environment, leaves him unboyish. He doesn't understand people. I
constantly have the impression that he is anxious to do the right thing,
but is simply baffled by problems in human relations."

"I know. He looks at me sometimes as though he's just desperate to reach
me somehow--a lonely, unhappy little soul. He gets plenty of affection
from both of us, but it isn't the answer--it just isn't the answer."

"Tell me, Helen, do you love your son?"

"Do I--! Well, now, really Phil--what kind of a question is that?"

"A simple one. Do you love Timmy?"

"Of course I do. He's very dear to me."

"_Do you love your son?_"

"Now look here--! I told you.... Phil, what are you getting at?"

"I'm wondering why you have no doubt that you love Timmy, but the
question of whether you love your son confuses you and throws you on
the defensive. You react strongly, evade answering, take refuge in
exclamations and unfinished sentences. A species of stuttering. Can it
be that you find it difficult to think of Timmy as your son? _Do you
doubt that he is your son?_ Here, sit down! I didn't think it would hit
you so hard."

"Phil, the only other moment like this in my life was when I first
admitted to myself years ago that Timmy was ... what he used to be.
An imbecile. Phil, it _can't_ be true! He _is_ my son! There's been
no substitution, no--"

"Easy, Helen, easy. I agree with you. I've checked back as fully as I
can, and I'm sure there's been no trickery of any sort. Timmy was born
to you eleven years ago, beyond a shadow of a doubt."

"But you've felt it too, haven't you? He's sweet and lovable in his
funny, confused way, talking like a comic-strip kid one minute and an
encyclopedia the next--so empty and faraway sometimes, then loving and
affectionate, as though to make up to us for being ... away. I'm sure he
loves us, Jerry and I, as much as we love him, but I feel that we've
failed him, that he wants love but it can't reach him. I'll say it,
Phil. I feel that he's not mine, that he's apart from us. Ridiculous,
isn't it? I can't feel true kinship for my own child, much as he means
to me. I feel better now that I've said it."

"I wish I could say the same, but I don't know that I feel any better
for adding one more question mark to a long, long line of them. Like
you, I sense a loneliness, a reaching out from Timmy for something I
can't give him no matter what I do, no matter how I try to understand.
I watch him, and I think of that line '... a stranger and afraid ...'
What is there that frightens him? Can it ... possibly ... be us?"




VI


Indian summer now lay softly upon the land.

On a wooded rise ten miles from the outskirts of the town, close by
a bluff overlooking the bushland, the tan walls of a small tent warmed
to the late afternoon sun. Here and there beyond the bushland the
supper-smoke of scattered farms stood columned and motionless. The only
sound on the still air was the harsh, labored breathing of the dying
Homer.

The dog lay in the open near the edge of the bluff, his eyes closed, his
companions seated nearby. Phil had brought Timmy on a week-end camping
trip that now appeared spoiled at the outset, for the short, steep climb
up the bluff had unexpectedly proven too much for old gray-muzzle. His
trembling legs had barely carried him to the top before he collapsed,
and now it was only a question of how long he must suffer before
release. Phil glanced toward a .22 rifle lying with their gear. It would
be more merciful.

"No, Uncle Phil. He'll live until sundown at least. Let him have that
much."

"I'm sorry this happened, Timmy, but now that it has I think we should
make it easier for him."

"You liked him, didn't you, Uncle Phil?"

"Yes, Tim ... I'm a bit surprised to find that I really did. I can't say
that I'm much of an animal-lover, but in his way Homer was the perfect
Old Faithful. No beauty and not very bright, you must admit, but he
never left your side. It won't seem the same."

"It won't _be_ the same, Uncle Phil." The boy raised his head to look
over the distant bushland. His face was composed.

"Timmy, I hesitate to say this, but--"

"I don't seem very upset about it?"

"Well, yes. Did you really care much for Homer? You never paid any
attention to him, never petted or played with him, just let him tag
along."

"I had no need to pet or play with him, and it was enough that he give
me all of his attention. I should have spared a thought for him, his
needs and limitations, but it's too late now." The answering voice was
subtly changed from that of a boy, and strangely gentle. "A dog's life
is so short, hardly more than today and tomorrow. A breath or two, and
it has begun and ended. When Homer dies he will be free, and I will no
longer exist."

A chill slid over the man.

What makes a voice? Air and musculature and tissue, but what more?
A brain, a mind--a life. An accumulative series of reactive patterns
called Life grows like a fragile crystal around a seeding impulse
that lacks a name acceptable to all, and the resulting structure is
called "personality" or "character" and it influences what it touches
in a manner peculiar to itself alone. Given the crude tools of a
sound-producing mechanism it will, if it chooses and has the skill,
disclose some trifle of its own true nature. Phil heard words that
should have sounded idiotic coming from a boy, but they carried complete
and instant conviction. Without elocutionary tricks, without fire and
oratory, the boy-voice had changed in timbre, acquired a quality that
could sway multitudes--the wild thought crossed Phil's mind that what
it had acquired was the quality of complete sanity.

A suspicion, planted deliberately and nurtured through the years,
matured on the triggered instant. Phil twisted around--alert, wary,
almost hostile, his eyes searching the somewhat bony young face. His
gaze was returned steadily, with assured composure.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Who are you?" he demanded bluntly. "_What_ are you?"

Timmy laughed lightly, patently at ease.

"I am nothing, Phil. Nothing at all."

"Rot. You are flesh and blood, human, and were born to Helen and Jerry.
What else?"

"Is there more?"

"Stop playing!" Phil jumped up angrily, standing tall over the seated
figure. "I've watched you for years. You've given yourself away
repeatedly."

"Ah, that 'advanced scientific knowledge' worried you badly, didn't it?"

"I ... see. You revealed it deliberately. There are other things. Your
aversion to crowds--"

"Their thinking confused me. They were dangerous."

"Were?"

"After tonight, crowds will not matter."

"Because Homer will be dead?"

"Because Homer will be dead, poor beast. My conscience will be dead."

"What on earth does that mean? I find it impossible either to doubt you
or to think of you as a boy any longer."

"That is because your mind is filled with uncertainties, mine with
certainties. You have never before met anyone in whom certainty was a
clear truth unquestioned on any level of any remote corner of the mind.
I am such a one."

Phil sat down helplessly. There was no point in standing. Whatever Tim
was, he was not going to be dominated by tricks.

"_What are you?_"

"What can I say? I am a book that is being read, yet I am neither the
pages nor the printing on the pages, but only the meaning inherent in
the shapes and sequences of the letters that comprise the printing."

"Can't you give me a straight answer?"

"It is difficult. You must think about what I say."

"But the ideas recorded in a book are merely--thoughts. They have no
tangible existence."

"Nor have I."

"You're not a product of my imagination!"

"Hardly."

"Are you giving me that line about 'All is Illusion'?"

"No," the boy laughed spontaneously.

"Are you a mutant, a new evolutionary development?"

"No, nor am I a machine or a monster."

"At least you're alive!"

"That, I think, is a matter of definition."

"Then, for the third time, what are you! Stop baiting me!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Timmy's hand closed on Phil's--a firm, warm, dirty and somewhat
calloused boy's hand that was unquestionably flesh, blood and bone.

"Take it easy, Uncle Phil." Perhaps he had pushed too hard. The dancing
eyes veiled themselves a little and the intangible, indescribable
magnetism somehow faded. Phil, looking at him, was suddenly able to
see him and to think of him once more as Timmy, a boy with unusual
qualities, but the same boy he had watched for years. He shook his head
and felt somewhat bemused, as he had done once before.

"Look, let's get a fresh start, Tim, and stop going in circles."

"O. K., Uncle Phil." He was an eleven-year-old again, responding
obediently.

"I've suspected for years that we didn't know the truth about you--that
you were something special, something new."

"Well--" Tim appeared to consider it gravely. "Yeah, I guess that's fair
enough. I'm something new, all right."

"For years, then, you've been concealing something--something that
showed through whenever you made a slip."

"Wanna bet on how many of those slips were deliberate?" Tim challenged,
then joined Phil's rueful laugh. "Not all of them were, I got to admit,
but most of them."

"But today--apparently because Homer is dying--you've abandoned
pretense, come out in the open."

"Not all the way out, not yet. You've still got some shocks coming,
Uncle Phil."

"I don't doubt it, you young hoodlum. You were pretty overwhelming there
for a few minutes. But why all the mystery? Why not just tell me?"

"You explained why."

"Overwhelming? Are you that terrific?"

"I'm a humdinger, Bub. Think you can stand it now?"

"I think the full blast would be better than any more of your 'gentle'
hints."

"That's what you think." Come now, the first shock had been fairly
neatly delivered and fielded after all, the concept of difference
proposed, established and accepted. "Well, here goes. You remember
that spray of flowers I handed you in the car that night?"

"I've had my suspicions about them ever since."

"O. K.--now smell this pine cone."

Phil looked at it with distrust.

"The thing that beats me is how I can be morally certain that pine cone
is loaded, cocked, and ready to fire, and yet I take it," he let Tim put
it in his hand, "and smell it." He raised it to his nostrils, held his
breath for a moment, then gingerly sniffed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Time stopped.

All sense of duration was gone. Awareness drifted in formless
inattention until a focal point, a mere nucleus of intellect, captured
and held it. The nucleus strengthened, became an impression of
identity--not his own identity, nor any that he knew, but that of
some Other. From this other presence came insistently the warmth and
gentleness of good will, an unreserved outpouring that sought to evoke
an unreserved response.

Isolation, the sanctum of the mind, took the assault, melting like an
ice-castle in the sun--but before the tempting surrender could become
irrevocable alarms rang through his being and his mind gathered in on
itself in confusion, holding its isolation intact and inviolate. Through
the opposing desires to yield and to withhold, to break barriers down
and to raise them up, he detected from the Other a reaction both of pity
and of revulsion. The pressure decreased. He knew then that what he
yielded willingly would be accepted as sufficient, and no more be asked
of him than he was capable of giving. Somehow, it was not a victory, but
a defeat.

He became aware that the private domain he had claimed for his own was
truly his own, a corridored, compartmented, dungeoned storehouse of
filed fancies and forgotten files. A tunneled, revetted, embrasured and
battlemented citadel filled with rusty armor and broken lances. A hock
shop, a junkyard, a hall of distorting mirrors. A cemetery by the sea,
a peak of glory, a slough of despond. A radiant light, an encroaching
dark, the sweetest of melody, the sourest of discord. A library of
trivia, museum of curiosa, sideshow of freaks, and shrine of greatness.
It was the lowering pendulum, the waiting pit, the closing walls. It was
the vaulting spirit, the gallant heart, the just and the kind and the
merciful. Withal, it was a haunted castle, perpetually besieged, the
towers soaring but the structure toppling. It was himself. His memories,
his experiences, his actions and reactions, his life. And it was
appalling.

A gentle prompting from the Other roused him from his self-immersion
and for a moment he was all panic lest his secret had been observed.
Mechanisms he had not known he possessed slammed doors and banged
shutters over windows in a fine frenzy, so that the Other winced and
fell back, pleadingly, then softly and insistently drew near once more.
He realized that there was a purpose that must be served. Something was
desired from him. A voice. He tried, and the croak of a clogged throat
would have held as much meaning as the disharmonious thrust of thought
that began in chaos and ended in futility. Abashed, he would not try
again. Silence crept around him, the silence of isolation.

The most disarmingly hesitant, the most reassuringly inoffensive of
thoughts touched as lightly as a breath and was accepted as his own.
He saw no cause to take alarm. Such an insignificant invasion was of no
more moment than the blowing of a grain of dust beneath a locked door.

The thought lay among his own, and moved like a thread through his own,
and the elements that it drew together became the acceptance of an idea.
Secure in his ill-kept citadel, he permitted a rapport so tenuous he
could break it at will, yet so strong that--




VII


Memory tinged with homesickness tricked him into a sad reverie. That
they were only memories, these thoughts that rose up to slyly capture
his attention, was clear. He was under no illusion that he was
experiencing for the first time events that had long melted into the
past, for they had a common-place familiarity that stamped them as
scenes revisited, events relived, dear friends recalled to mind.

He stood alone at the edge of a meadow with the afternoon sun hot on his
back and debated with Andra the advisability of transplanting a certain
shrub from its chance-chosen place in the meadow to a position in their
own gardens. Throughout their discussion he was conscious of little
drops of perspiration threading their way down his naked spine, and he
longingly savored the coolness of the stream-bank on which Andra
reclined, a mile or two to the south.

In good-humored exasperation he commented enviously on woman's lot and
drew a dry rejoinder from a chance traveler on the highway to the north.
He joined in the general laugh at his own expense, hearing the sally
repeated and elaborated until it drifted out of conversational range. He
was tempted to follow it farther out of curiosity, but it was not good
form to blanket local conversation for a mere whim. While his attention
was distracted, however, Andra became involved in an exchange of local
recipes with a newcomer to the district, a farm-wife whose husband had
had a fancy to try the westward farm lands. He joined the husband in a
wry grimace at the loquacity of women, and simultaneously caught sight
of a distant figure crossing a ridge somewhat north of him. The figure
paused at the same instant, looked searchingly in his direction, then
waved on sighting him and strolled on. It was the traveler whose quip
was now being repeated miles away, far in advance of him. Andra showed
no sign of running out of recipes and returning to shrubs. He sighed,
and stood alone in the meadow....

       *       *       *       *       *

The casual facility of memory bridged time and space without
disorientation. He was strolling in the evening with his bride, Andra's
arm linked with his for the added pleasure of physical contact. In the
manner of lovers they supplemented their thoughts with murmured words
and sounds, thus sharing still another physical intimacy, for they were
still in that newly-mated condition where every manifestation of the one
was a source of delight and wonder to the other.

They paused momentarily by a vine-covered wall and he felt a cool frond
reach out to caress his shoulder while a long tendril curled gracefully
about his forearm between the upper and the lower wrists. A few
hundred-thousand years ago his remote ancestor would have recoiled
violently from the touch of what was then a strangler vine, but now he
casually disengaged the half-sentient tendril and with his mind caught
the faint, faint flicker of rudimentary awareness; thus far had nature
progressed with the vine, apparently reluctant to abandon a false start
toward mobility and intelligence for an unsuitable species. Or perhaps,
Andra added, in nature's long-term view the experiment might still be
considered promising. He shook his head.

The vine had learned peaceful ways that saved it from extinction,
drawing its food quietly from the earth while further developing a
mobility of sorts, but eventually an impasse would be reached when
greater mobility would endanger nutrition. If the roots withdrew from
the soil, the vine would die--unless, he agreed slowly, echoing her
shudder, the vine solved the dilemma by becoming again a carnivorous
strangler. Nature made unaccountable blunders and sometimes found
strange remedies, turning a blessing for one species into a curse for
others....

[Illustration: HOMER]

On the same impulse they gazed at the night sky blazing with the heart
of the galaxy spread around them, a galaxy as yet less than half mapped,
only a small fraction of its secrets known. Like many new-mates they
planned a leisurely, lengthy quest among the stars, a trip for which
their mutual absorption peculiarly fitted them. After all, the
advancement of knowledge still required physical and intellectual
research and the joy of living still demanded physical and emotional
release, but there was one great barrier to space-travel.

Leaving the great community of Challon ordinarily meant leaving an
intensely experienced fellowship to endure a shattering isolation no
less intensely felt, unless one were fortunate enough to be chosen for
an exploration team. There was both comfort and common sense in the use
of teams of the greatest numerical strength consistent with efficiency,
but the resources demanded by such teams limited the number that could
be fielded at one time. Consequently, private voyages in small craft
were not entirely uncommon among the hardy--or the temporarily
self-sufficient, such as he and Andra. In a few days they would leave
Challon behind, break for the first time the half-spiritual link with
all their world, and voyage forth in the belief that their love for each
other was alone enough to sustain them.

At the same instant the same doubt of self-worthiness crept into each
mind and was read and stoutly answered by the other, while a dozen
neighbors near and distant interrupted their own concerns to murmur
encouragement and recall the doubts they, too, had felt and learned to
dismiss. Reassured he led Andra back to the house, scarcely aware of the
background bustle of other minds busy with other matters--nor, in fact,
greatly caring at that moment that others existed. The manner of love
may change, but not the manners of lovers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Memory surged after memory on waves of nostalgia and homesickness that
told their own story of why the memories had been long buried. Challon
had fallen away behind them and the strangeness of the cleavage from
their fellows had dismayed them. In and around the spaceport center, a
multitude of the fellows they were never to see again had paused long
enough in their own affairs to mesh thoughts in a final projection of
encouragement that reached after the dwindling ship like a gesture of
farewell.

A long, long farewell. A final farewell, unrecognized for the last
parting that it was.

They had known from the experience of others that the first terrible
silence would be a hard thing to endure until the strangeness wore off.
At first they huddled like two children, driving their thoughts far into
unanswering space in desperate disbelief that such utter silence could
be. Repelled by space, they turned to each other and found more complete
union than they had thought possible. From the depth of their union they
found the strength and growth and maturity to adapt, to endure, and to
survive. The fear passed. The worst was over.

       *       *       *       *       *

Planetfall succeeded planetfall and the routine of their activities
became smooth and practiced. As was the custom, they had been asked
to obtain various items of information from sundry known but largely
unexplored planets to help determine whether a later visit by a
full-scale exploration team would be advisable. In one system they made
a rapid instrumental survey of the only major continent on the only
inhabitable planet, from a height of a hundred miles. In another, a
skimming prospecting trip in a certain area confirmed a predicted rich
ore body. And at all times, of course--particularly when they left the
known systems behind and entered virgin territory--there was the
Challonari to be trained and observed.

The Challonari--a part-organic, artificial brain--was one of the most
promising recent developments of Challon science. It was also one of the
most debatable, for the Challonari was capable of independent thought in
its limited fashion and yet had been devised solely as an instrument, a
tool. It had no freedom of action, no physical independence, but it had
childlike emotions and--this was the damnable thing--a sense of identity
and awareness of its creators as such. Thus the moral issue was raised.
To the Challon, the control or coercion of an independent intelligence
was a cardinal outrage. No greater sanctity existed than the sanctity of
the individual, for anything that prejudiced or restricted the right of
the individual to full mastery of himself was worse even than the
deliberate taking of life. It was murder of the ego. In a telepathic
society, life itself could not be more precious than self-control.

The combined growth and manufacture of the Challonari had been stopped
in horror when it was realized that their capabilities were greater than
anticipated. An organic tool had not been created, but rather a ...
what? When does a tool become an entity? If it is an entity, what right
have its makers to control it and use it as a tool? What right have they
to--the thorniest issue of all--destroy it or otherwise put it aside
when it is no longer required? Until these fundamental issues could be
settled, the handful of Challonari in existence must be cared for,
trained and observed as if they were backward children.

The main function of the Challonari on such a voyage as this was to
safeguard the ship and its immediate vicinity when on strange worlds.
This it accomplished by a swift, simplified appraisal of the offensive
capacities of any life form coming within its limited range. If their
natural weapons--claws, size, poison, fangs--rendered them potentially
dangerous should the Mentor leave the ship, then the Challonari
projected into their minds a simple disinterest in the environs of the
ship, a reluctance to approach closer. If this failed, the reluctance
impulse became tinged with fear, the intensity of the fear increasing
until the desired retreat occurred.

If the approaching unknown was of sufficient intelligence to identify
the disinterest-reluctance-fear impulse as a telepathic warning, then
no further effort was made to turn it back, much less to hurl it back
by force. That would have been unthinkable. An intelligent entity
approaching the vessel would be welcomed and requested to identify
itself, while notice of its approach would be delivered to the Challon
Mentor. Stranger and Challon would then inevitably join in friendly
greeting, for hostile suspicion was unknown among minds that lay open
one to the other. Among the handful of known life forms of sufficient
intelligence to possess highly organized communications, no exception to
this natural rule existed. A meeting of minds was a meeting of friends.

       *       *       *       *       *

Memory flinched, wavered, then flowed on into previously forbidden
areas. The long outward voyage approached its turning point, its
disaster point. He did not know how or why it had happened. Perhaps
in their mutual absorption he and Andra became careless. They had
entered a planetary system, he recalled, and he had casually manipulated
the controls. His perceptive faculties detected a tiny spurt of flame
somewhere out of sight in the control bank, then the potent engines
reacted out of control for a critical instant near planetary mass. The
swift restoration of control only eased the crash, the automatics taking
over a fraction too late after the fragile living tissue was smashed
against the walls.

The return of consciousness told him at once that he was in the presence
of death. Lying paralyzed and helpless in a pool of his own fluids, he
could see the jelly that had been Andra. He quietly resigned himself to
the death that might yet take days to come. It would be welcome.

An interregnum of shock followed in which his normal faculties were
unseated, but with the passage of time he roused himself a little.
Weakened as he was, his perception told him that the ship had buried
itself deep in a swamp until it rested on bedrock. A dozen feet of muck
and water lay over it. Even had they survived the crash they would have
been helpless unless intelligent aid could be enlisted. He tried to
drive out his thoughts in a cry for help, but the strength was gone from
him. Within a radius of two miles there was no intelligent life, if any
existed on the planet.

More from habit than for any other reason, he awakened the Challonari.
It had survived the crash unharmed in its carefully cushioned
immobility, unaware that anything had transpired between the last
planetfall and this one. It immediately perceived that one of the
Mentors had gone, but before it could ask questions it was sternly
directed to concentrate its attention on the environs of the vessel.
Having thus distracted it from the presence of death, he sank back
gratefully into a stasis of no-thought. Let time pass. It would bring
succor or death, and he could do nothing more to hasten either one.

The Challonari roused him from his stupor on the third day after the
crash. It was disturbed, excited by something beyond its comprehension.
While he had lain helpless and shriveling on a compartment floor
something unusual had approached to within half a mile of the ship
through the thick swamp vegetation. The life form had apparently
detected the first tendrils of thought from the Challonari and without
preamble, as a natural defense, erected a savage mental shield. Pain and
chaos that made coherent thinking difficult shook the artificial brain,
but since this evidently was not an intelligent life form, else it would
not have reacted in such a manner, the Challonari increased in intensity
its fear-reluctance impulse. The mental shielding of the intruder blazed
and crackled with increasing dissonance, radiating pain, fear and panic,
but no decipherable intelligent thought. It drew nearer, erratically,
apparently running, then swiftly lapsed into unconsciousness. That was
when the bewildered Challonari had called him for aid.

       *       *       *       *       *

He reached out wearily with his mind in automatic response, touched
and hastily withdrew. Even when unconscious the strange being had an
aura of discordance about its mind. He would have shivered had he still
been capable of physical reaction, for this was Unsanity, a thing he
had heard of but never before encountered. The Challonari caught his
protective thought and withdrew from contact, though not without a soft
protest, for it was inquisitive as any child. It, too, had heard of
unsanity. Rare stresses or injuries now and again temporarily upset the
balance of the mind and required the healing touch of other minds. But
unsanity was not something the Challonari could handle. It withdrew from
possible infection, protestingly, fearful for its beloved Mentor but
incapable of disobeying a clear command.

His own great pity for the sick creature outside conquered the
inertia of approaching death and he rallied what mental forces he
still retained. He could not disregard suffering nor withhold whatever
aid it was in his power to give. Carefully, knowing something of what
to expect, he probed the shield which was no true shield but an uproar
of faulty coordination comparable to the disruptions coming from a
badly tuned radio. Wincing, as a musician winces when harsh, grating
dissonance strikes his ear, he gingerly probed deeper and deeper,
exploring this strange and fascinating structure that was unlike
anything he had ever experienced. It was an extraordinary complexity
that spread before him--a maze, a labyrinth, a magnificent corruption
of order and reason.

His first discovery he half expected. This was a mind of an intelligence
level not far beneath his own, though fearfully hobbled by
misconceptions, superstitions, half-truths and fallacies. Life had
brutally mishandled and shackled--_life_ had? It was an adult of its
species. How could its condition have existed undetected for so long?
He extended his explorations, and suddenly the incredible truth lay
revealed.

The dominant species on this planet was that theoretically possible
but logically improbable mistake of nature, a race of intelligent
nontelepaths!

Fantastic as it was, there was no room for doubt. He was glad he had
ordered the Challonari to withdraw from contact. To accept the existence
of such beings required a flexibility under shock, an adaptability of
reasoning, that the limited Challonari could never rise to. It was like
a blow at the structure of the universe, but it raised a fascinating,
age-old problem--what possible means of adequate communication could
they have?

Excited despite the great discomfort of maintaining contact with this
mind, he extended his explorations in search of the answer. A growing
suspicion was quickly confirmed beyond question, explaining at once
the sickening deformities of the wasted mind and the enigma of the
alternative means of communication. There simply was no adequate
communication! From that, all else stemmed. Each of these creatures,
these--he searched for the term--these "Man" as they called themselves,
was an island, an isolation of ego in a flood of dark fears that began
lapping about them in early childhood and never ceased to rise. And
this, by its own conception, was a "normal" specimen! It had "matured"
in a thoroughly competitive society instead of the completely
coperative society of the Challon. It had never really known or
understood its own true nature, much less that of its fellows. It had
never truly known security, serenity, freedom, or peace. The eternal
wonder was that it had progressed at all.

Deeper and deeper he explored, tracing and classifying, filled with awe.
The incredible creature knew little or nothing of its own nervous system
and would not have been aware of loss if the most essential portion of
its brain had been surgically removed! Its life span was only a small
fraction of what it should have been since, in its ignorance, it failed
to repair itself as it had the innate ability to do. And yet, what an
unbelievable treasury lay locked and sealed here. Only long study could
render this infinite honeycomb intelligible, even to a Challon. Nothing
like this had ever been known.

Mingled horror and profoundest admiration grew at what he found, but the
creature began to awaken. With a deft skill he planted a suggestion,
then hastily withdrew from contact before the impossible discord of
mental cacophony became unbearable. The creature rose, wondering at its
previous panic, and moved away from the vicinity of the vessel that now,
above all else, it must never discover.

That was the first problem to be faced.

By learning what he had, the heaviest duty and the greatest moral
obligation his race had ever borne was laid upon him. The last secret of
these "Man" made effective action imperative. Although he him self was
crushed beyond hope of survival, somehow his new knowledge and _all that
it implied_ must survive.

       *       *       *       *       *

Unobtrusive, physical reduction of the ship to completely unrecognizable
debris might have to be accomplished eventually, but it certainly was
not immediately possible. However, perception told him that the heavy
vessel was already hidden beneath silt and stagnant water. It would
be safe for a while from accidental discovery. The Challonari was
self-sustaining and could survive untended for years, if necessary,
serving to keep the area clear of wild life that might draw hunters
of the dominant species dangerously near.

There remained, then, the problem of providing a substitute for his own
personal survival. Here, the prospect seemed hopeless. The requirements
were a continuance of understanding, together with both the will and the
ability to act as necessary. Theoretically, he could have forcefully
taken possession of the body and mind of any suitable subject, but the
mere thought of such a violation was impossibly abhorrent. Respect for
the right of the individual to self-will was so deeply ingrained as to
make the deliberate unseating of another's reason virtually impossible.
On the other hand, free-willed coperation and understanding were
equally out of reach; to enter the conscious mind of these beings was
agony for both parties. They could neither project nor receive thoughts.

Ebbing vitality and the increased urgency of the problem drove him to a
desperate resource. A pregnant female came within the extreme range of
his perception. An embryo mind might serve! The mind, as yet unsullied,
sleeping, a blank page untouched by the world, was open to him. If the
appropriate knowledge was seeded in its memory banks it might--it
_must_--remain sane despite the world, and a sane mind would not dispute
what must be done.

He made a quick evaluation of the subject mind and discovered the flaw.
The intelligence potential was too low. The embryo would not be capable
of understanding the planted memories as they came to the conscious
level, nor be capable of acting on them if they were understood. Time
was ebbing fast, and vitality with it. Very well, then, the most
desperate, the most questionable resource of all remained. The unused,
unrecognized prime center, true seat of the intellect, must be activated
the way nature presumably had intended that it should be, had not
something gone wrong in the dawn years of the planet.

There could be no moral objection to this measure if successful, since
it amounted to giving sight to a blind man. The element of grave doubt
lay in the relative chances of success or failure. The strange,
interlocking structure of the unconscious mind of the embryo was not
something that could be unraveled and examined in a hurry. Honesty
compelled him to evaluate himself as young and inexperienced, not
especially noted among his own kind for brilliantly incisive judgment.
It was not the sort of thing that he should even attempt without long
study. It was too risky, too indecisive, too--

Time made the decision. There was no time left. The chill of death told
its own story. In an agony of haste he summoned all that remained of
vitality and fought off Death while he entered the embryo mind.

The fast-shriveling body in the spaceship retained life long enough to
recognize the blunder, but not long enough to correct it. The wrong was
done, and could not be undone.

       *       *       *       *       *

The memories that mercifully blurred became clear again. He knew that
in due course the mishandled embryo experienced birth, entering the
world normally as a helpless, feebly squirming, pathetically vulnerable
mite, and in no way drew unusual attention to itself. No one knew, or
cared, that intellectual awakening was phenomenally quick, the first
tentative questionings occurring in only the fourth week of life. He
recalled how the stirring of objective awareness brought with it a
half-remembered pang of death, and how the stirring of innocent wonder
brought--memories. The memory banks flooded open at the touch of wonder,
poured out their contents, and the fledgling ego went down before the
surge, overwhelmed forever.

Inexperienced in such delicate maneuvers and overtaken at the crises by
the climactic unseating of Death, he had poured into the empty memory
banks the whole contents of his own mind. All his knowledge, all his
experiences, all his memories on every level of incidents great and
small. Everything. Including the complex and ineradicable concept of
his own identity.




VIII


The involuntary start that shook the pine cone from his hand freed
Phil's nostrils of the anaesthetic. Rapidly clearing eyes watched the
cone fall near his feet and roll a few inches. A hawk that had been
wheeling in the sky at the edge of his vision was still wheeling. Only
seconds had elapsed, but this time there remained a clear recall of all
that had transpired in those few seconds of lost time--seconds in which
he had lived another's memories as though they were his own.

Reluctantly, impelled more by fascination than intent, he raised his
head and faced his companion. The compassionate eyes that met his did
hold certain childlike qualities of freedom from suspicion or hardness,
but the gaze was not that of a simple child, nor was the bearing.
Incongruity sparked a scarcely-controllable impulse to hysterical
laughter. A small boy seated on a log, regarding his elder with gentle
kindliness and understanding! Phil made a sound deep in his throat and
swung his head away, afraid he was going to be sick. "Timmy" made no
move. The silence endured, as it had to endure until one reaction or
another prevailed. Gradually Phil worked to a conclusion.

"You call it a 'blunder,'" Phil said thickly. "You made a freak of an
unborn baby for your own ends, and you call it a blunder. Anyone else
might be content with a little innocent butchery, but not you ... you
take over children, body and soul!"

"No."

"What we've been calling Timmy is a secondhand suit of clothes for
_you_! And you claim you're not a monster!"

"Nor am I."

Phil struggled for violent words to match his feelings, then sighed
heavily. "No," he agreed, despite himself. "You are not. I know that.
Maybe you've controlled me just as you tricked me into entering your
mind and living your memories but, sickened as I am, I still can't help
believing you more implicitly than I've ever believed anyone. Nor do I
see any reason to."

[Illustration]

"You've never known anyone as surely as you know me, now that our minds
have been in phase. Emotional reactions stemming from a dozen hidden
causes may mislead you, but at the back of your mind you _know_ me."

"And you know--me."

"I know only what I need to know about you. Your private memories are
your own and will always remain so unless you invite me to share them."

"Yet you opened all yours to me?"

"Far from it. At this point it would give you too much to digest all at
once. The major part of my concentration was required to maintain mental
contact without any help from you, and to blanket the interference set
up by the analytical part of your ego through its fixed, deep-rooted
conviction equating the individual with mental isolation. Faced with
absolute proof to the contrary, your analytical mind still tries to
insist that what it has always believed to be true must still be true,
otherwise everything is suspect and, therefore, anti-survival. In other
words, on a survival level your mind tries to reject free telepathy
as it would reject any other upsetting of the basic tenets of your
existence. That and the disharmony existing in your mind is a large part
of the 'protecting' aura of discordance that seals you off from me.
The memories I shared with you I selected and edited for expediency.
Unfortunately, your physical reaction to a startling thought caused you
to break away before you had the full truth and left you with a false
impression."

"Either the memories you fed me were truth, or they were lies. Which
is it?"

"The data was true, but your interpretation of it is false because you
are still in a state of shock, still fighting for survival on a moronic
level. What do you take me to be?"

"You name it. By your own admission, at best 'you' are a false
personality forcibly impressed on a helpless mind that never had a ghost
of a chance. In effect, you are a parasite living on a host, the
reincarnation of an ego that should be eleven years dead."

"Not eleven years dead--only eight."

"What difference does ... _eight_?"

"Eight years dead."

Prickles crawled over Phil's scalp and his mind raced. A series of
memories snapped into place.

"Eight. And I laughed at Clancey!"

"I know--I heard. You were getting too close for comfort so I distracted
you by giving you a headache."

"Stop--let me get my breath!" His voice rose until it threatened to
crack. What am I talking to! A _dog_?"

"Yes."

"_Homer_? I don't believe it!"

"Watch." The boy slipped from the log and sat beside it on the ground,
his back braced. "Timmy would simply fall on his face," he explained,
and with the words the face became empty and the mouth hung foolishly
open. Control had been relinquished. The corner of Phil's eye caught
an answering movement that his senses wanted to reject, but he turned.
Homer had raised his head painfully and was looking directly at him,
unmistakable intelligence in the exhaustion-glazed eyes. The fringed
lips curled back, the throat worked. Strange sounds were forced out,
growling but not doglike.

"Ar-ro ... ar-rik." It was a barely recognizable distortion of
"Hello-Warwick." "Ok-all ... orr ... ron." Vocal-cords-wrong?
"Im ... ork." Tim-talk?

The gray-muzzled head sank back wearily. A scuffling sound drew Phil's
dazed eyes and he turned back in time to see Tim sit up again briskly,
ignoring the old dog.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I hate that mangled speech, don't you, Uncle Phil? I'll still call you
that, if you don't mind. You're still as much my uncle as you ever were,
and I'm the only Tim you've known." He watched Phil anxiously. "Knocks
the wind out of you, doesn't it? But ordinary speech is painfully
limited to begin with, without trying to force it from poor old Homer."
He chattered on nervously, giving Phil time to collect himself. "You
see, Timmy is as mindless now as when he was born, three years before
'my' ship crashed in the swamp over there. Look back through your
newspaper files and you'll find a brief mention of a mysterious
explosion reported during a night of heavy rain. That was us." He wet
his lips, watching the silent white face. "Look, I had nothing at all to
do with Timmy being born an imbecile. He's like a car that functions
well enough if a driver takes over the physical controls that Timmy is
incapable of handling for himself. Lacking a driver, the controls and
the car stand idle. It is only the body that I manipulate, not the
dormant, disconnected mind. For myself, although I can't help
identifying myself emotionally and subjectively as the Challon,
Objective reason assures me that I am Homer, with a complete but false
set of memories and an artificially stimulated intelligence.

"As the Challon, I realized that the embryo Homer was of low actual
intelligence, but high potential intelligence. The dangerous peculiarity
of this planet is that several of the higher species have no known or
recognized function for the most important portion of their brain. It
lies fallow, unused, blocked off much as Timmy's whole mind is blocked
off from his service. In eight years I have done no more than form the
mere skeleton of a theory to account for that, but the means of
correction was obvious from the start. Like the appendix that floats
free at one end and serves no known purpose, the brain has an incomplete
neural path of an unusual nature that has effectively camouflaged its
true purpose. The intended function of the connection was the energizing
of that prime center which you have not yet discovered and without which
you differ from Timmy only in degree, for you cannot realize more than a
fragment of your incredible potential.

"The same condition exists among the higher mammals. Releasing Homer's
blocked potential placed at his service the intellectual capacity of a
very clever human--according to your false standards--but not of a human
genius. If I had not imposed my ego on him ... you see, I cannot help
thinking of myself as the Challon, although I know I am Homer ... if
I had not robbed Homer of his identity and self-will, of his right
to possess and control himself, he would have developed personality,
characteristics and aptitudes of his own, appropriate to a canine of
high intelligence. As it is, there are false memories of aptitudes Homer
never had nor could have. Physical limitations alone make some of them
impossible. How could a dog tinker with machinery, for example? Yet I
'remember' working on machines of my own design. Homer's mind, in other
words, remembers as first-person data experiences it never had.

"In actual fact, 'I' who speak to you now am no more than the record
contained in a book. In terms of personality, Homer is the hidden
structure giving strength and substance to a false facade. 'I' am the
false facade, faithfully copied from another structure. 'I' am a
superimposure of ephemeral data, governing its own employment by a mind
that has been restricted from developing its own data. The 'I' that
speaks to you has no real existence, though its pattern is being subtly
and continuously altered by that which it cloaks. If you put a drop of
intense stain and a drop of powerful scent into a large tank of
distilled water, you change the superficial character of the water, make
it seem to be other than what it is. But it remains essentially a tank
full of water, now containing an obtrusive trifle of alien matter in
addition to the hydrogen and oxygen that decide its most significant
properties. That is what the Challon did to Homer--he released the
potential, then accidentally but indelibly stained it with his own
personality.

"To me, now, it merely _seems_ as though I first suffered death and then
an unwelcome resurrection, awakening in despair to find myself usurping
the helpless body of an almost new-born animal. Nothing physical or
spiritual of the Challon survived, but the embryo mind had been fed a
ready-made identity and so believed that it had already existed as a
Challon before re-birth as a dog. Its brain received instantly all 'my'
training, so that it became at once 'mature.' What I have endured in
these eight years--the isolation of mind and inadequacy of body--have
been a blunderer's reward visited upon his victim as a further injury.
Now that Homer lies near death--and 'I' with him, of course--I welcome
'our' approaching release from an unhappy situation.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Wait--let me finish. Your main concern is what will happen to Timmy
when 'we' die, but it will be simpler to understand if I explain as much
as I can first. Finding myself to be a rational mind in the helpless,
immature body of an animal, I thought I was isolated forever. In
choosing the embryo to begin with, I was driven by the need for haste
and had not understood the limitations of a canine in a human world, nor
would I have had any alternative if I had fully understood. When it was
too late, it was not difficult to predict my future. I had no means of
communicating with the dominant species, Man. In time, if I survived
the hazards a puppy is exposed to, I could reveal my unusual
intelligence--could even learn to communicate in some hopelessly labored
manner. By using my store of inherited knowledge I could, if anyone
would take a dog seriously, advance your science. But I could do nothing
toward my main goals without exposing myself as an imitation Challon,
and that I must never do lest I loose terrible consequences.

"I knew that the life span of my new body was pitifully short. The
female had suffered repeated convulsions that affected the formation of
the embryos and we were an ugly litter of little mongrels, doomed by our
physical imperfections to a shorter-than-normal life if we were allowed
to live and exposed to early drowning if we could not quickly charm
ourselves into a home.

"The remainder of the litter--my brothers and sisters, if I could think
of them as such--were callously placed in a weighted sack and tossed
in the swamp, but by that time I had found a home. The Douglas home.
Their child, Timmy, was an imbecile whose short-circuited mind lay
open to me. I found by hasty experiments that Homer's mind was capable
of controlling and manipulating the imbecile, like a puppeteer. The
difficulties of controlling two bodies at once are tremendous, which is
why Homer always struck you as clumsy and almost half-witted--he had to
receive the absolute minimum of concentration so that his exhaustion at
climbing the bluff this afternoon, for example, was not recognized in
time. Well, there it is. I took over Timmy's helpless body eight years
ago--too abruptly and with many errors--but it insured my survival for
a short time at least. Now that time is at an end and the greater part
of what I must do is still to be done--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Phil sat with his face averted, his hands clenched between his knees.
"The instinct to survive," he said in a muffled voice. "I can't blame
you for what you did, but it was cruel! What a damnable trick to play
on the parents!"

"Believe me, I know what you feel but there was no other way."

"No other!" He swung around, his face mottled and his breathing heavy.
"Whatever you are, you made a Machiavellian puppet-master out of a
lousy, flea-bitten mongrel! Was it beyond _those_ powers to heal Timmy's
mind?"

"I am not a psychopathic criminal."

"Do you imply that healing Timmy would involve repeating the swindle you
worked on Homer?"

"No. I could have by-passed the simple neural block that was leaving
Timmy helpless, and so have given him what to you would have seemed his
normal intelligence. In addition, I could have completed the work that
nature left incomplete in all of you, and so have released his full,
enormous capabilities. I could have done all this--can still do it--and
still leave Timmy's ego untouched, to develop in its own way, among its
own kind, knowing nothing of me for what I am."

"But you haven't done so. Why? Why!"

"I dared not."

"Danger? From a small boy?"

"Deadly danger--danger of infection that might threaten every
intelligent race in the galaxy and even spread across the great gulfs of
space beyond--"

"All this from poor little Timmy?"

"From what he might thereby become."

"I'm licked." Phil threw out his hands angrily. "I try to get a straight
answer and all I get is implications. You tell me an outrageous story,
and I believe you. You tell me you've neatly arranged to break the
hearts of two of my best friends, and I respect your good intentions in
doing so. Why? I love you like a brother, but I'm ready to take a rock
and crush your skull in for a monster. I mean it! I could kill Homer
with a single kick! I could--"

"I know, and I'm afraid of that hysterical impulse. I know the nature of
the struggle going on in your mind better than you do, but only you can
fight for control. I must wait for the outcome. When you have control of
yourself--"

"You're so bloody sane and smug you with your secondhand suit and
hand-me-down knowledge!" He jumped up in a fury and turned his back on
Timmy, addressing himself directly to Homer whose patient, pain-filled
eyes held undeniable understanding. "Look at you! The telepathic genius
with personal immortality--at a price only you could stomach! Too bad
you got caught short and had to live in a cur! Tough, isn't it, having
to wait for a mere moron to get control of himself! _You_ know all the
answers--why don't _you_ control the situation?"

"Because the hand-me-down knowledge is no longer backed by the mental
capacity of a Challon."

Phil stiffened as Tim's answering voice sounded behind him, quiet and
friendly. Against his will, he turned back to the boy and seated himself
again on the log. The boy's eyes caught and held his.

"The morality and outlook of the Challon are my morality and outlook,
whether I wish it so or not." Tim might have been making a pleasantly
inconsequential remark about the weather for all the importance he
seemed to attach to his statement, yet his eyes held the strained,
tight-lipped face. "The insight and understanding bequeathed by the
Challon are sufficient to keep Homer's mind sane under long stress,
and of course--"

His soothing voice went on and on, and presently his lungs expelled
a soft breath of relief as Phil relaxed a trifle, still breathing
raggedly. Alert eyes watched him mop his damp forehead but the quiet
words flowed in an unhurried stream, soothing, distracting, keeping the
thread intact. At last the crises seemed behind them. "... So I can only
wait for you to absorb the emotional impact of what I've told you. I had
planned to prepare you, to break it gently if I could, but ... you
understand?" The voice paused, then repeated gently and insistently,
"You understand, don't you?"

"Uh ... yes. Homer--"

       *       *       *       *       *

"He can't last much longer, and so of course I can't. I've landed one
kick after another right smack in your emotional solar plexus and you're
trying to catch your wind." Tim's hand casually struck a match for the
cigarette Phil had put unlit in his mouth and the man leaned forward
automatically, puffed, and automatically muttered a word of thanks. The
quiet voice went on, taking an even more casual note. "What with trying
to examine the implications of everything at once, you've stirred up a
fine old Irish stew of fears, resentments and envies, all of them trying
to reconcile the certain knowledge that I can be trusted and the
essentially neurotic fear that I'm playing you for an almighty sucker.

"Remember, it has been even harder for me to reconcile myself to you
human beings than it can possibly be for you to accept the existence
of the Challon. The concept of telepathy is not a completely new or
alien one to you, but the concept of a nontelepathic civilization was
dismissed by the Challon ages ago as a simple contradiction of terms,
a self-evident absurdity such as lifting oneself by one's bootstraps.

"It seemed so obvious that a civilized society could not develop without
the capacity for intelligent coperation, and intelligent coperation of
any real complexity was impossible without adequate communication. What
means of communication could adequately replace the direct linking of
mind and mind? Failing any answers short of fantasy, the proposition
always remained a sort of classroom joke with us. In fact, several
classic satires exist on the subject and one of the least
successful--because it seemed too ridiculous--suggested an elaborately
coded system of vocalizing. We have a very elementary spoken language
and a more complex code of inscriptions for essential records, but
neither the written nor the spoken system could possibly be called an
adequate means of communication.

"I realize now that one of the satires was not the rather frightening
effort that it seemed to be, but a brilliant scientific prediction of
the probable development and history of a race of highly intelligent
nontelepaths. The composer of the epic pointed out that where the
culture and character of the Challon neither permitted nor desired
concealment of any sort, a race that lacked adequate communication would
have no choice but to live as disharmonious groups of strangers, never
truly knowing either their fellows or themselves. He postulated what
you now call traumatic experiences which, unrecognized and, therefore,
untreated, would fester in secrecy from childhood onward until they
manifested as compulsive drives or inhibitive complexes. He invented
deranged emotions which you describe as 'guilt' and 'shame' and he
showed how they would cause buried memories to erupt in changed form,
lead to cankerous misunderstandings, cause unhealthy repressions, and
foster frustrations.

       *       *       *       *       *

"But his master-stroke--and this was pure genius, for it was almost
inconceivable--was when he traced the development of his 'nontelepathic
civilization' to the point where he predicted criminals, criminal and
moral codes of unbelievable complexity, and a great multitude of harmful
and illogical taboos, local customs, and regional superstitions.
It was a superb achievement of creative imagination and scientific
deduction--but not even its creator thought it was more than an exercise
in fantasy and perhaps not in the best of taste. The basic assumption
was simply too absurd for serious consideration."

"Yeah. I guess we were as indigestible to you as you are to me. Maybe
I'm getting over it. Sorry ... uh ... Homer."

"Call me Tim. I don't think of myself as Homer and my Challon
identification is a mental-verbal linkage. Even 'Challon' is a
compromise simplification."

"I guess it would be. Those cracks I made--"

"Forget them. To what you call the hag-ridden moron jittering out of
sight in your mind, so many things equate to a threat to survival.
And so many survival reactions outlast their usefulness, becoming
essentially antisocial and antisurvival. For a telepathic race there
are no false fronts or motives or impulses. In a nontelepathic society,
nothing but false faces are ever seen."

"It's beginning to get home to me ... what about that night near the
swamp?"

"My poor Challonari. The shockwave of 'my' death left it alert but
bewildered. It could not recognize nontelepathic intelligences and tried
to turn them aside like the first one. Their deaths are on my head--or
on the organic dust that eight years ago was a Challon. The Challonari
was confused by the contradictions of my present identity, subtly
altered as it has been by Homer's channeling mind, and went insane when
faced with a basic conflict of duties. It was like ... losing a simple
child."

"So we return to Timmy."

"And to you."

"Me? I'm going downhill fast. Let's have it before I hit rock-bottom and
_really_ get around to reacting. And let's have a few straight answers.
You could have by-passed the first block that makes Timmy an idiot.
O. K., why didn't you?"

"I would have lost control of him at once, of course. For one thing, as
an ordinary child his mind would be closed to me just as yours is and I
would be a voiceless animal with no protector, my existence likely to
end at the bottom of a river in a weighted sack."

"No dice. Remember, I know you too well to believe you'd place your own
interests first, much as I hate to admit it."

"As Homer I might, survival being a basic drive. As the Challon-Homer,
however, I needed a better reason than simple self-preservation. I have
that better reason. It lies in you, in Timmy, and in all your kind.
Perhaps you'll see the connection when I tell you that although the
Challon are the most intelligent race yet known to exist, Homo sapiens
is _at present_ not far behind them. Only more efficient communication
and the great strides that it makes possible has advanced the Challon
culture and science so disproportionately far beyond your own."

       *       *       *       *       *

"So the Challon are a bit brighter and a lot more advanced than we are.
O. K., they seem like a good bunch ... or are they? Come to think of it,
I saw them from your viewpoint which was predisposed to favor them."
Another thought struck him and he fell silent for a moment. "You say we
are almost their equal _at present_. What happens--if this inhibited
potential you speak of--is released--if Man is made whole?"

[Illustration]

The answer came quietly.


"You would have no equal in the known universe."

Phil's face grew thoughtful, sober, while the Challon-Homer watched
through Tim's eyes the progress of a calculated gamble.

"Would the Challon--resent--our becoming superior?"

"For the same reason that the present Challon superiority is not
resented by races of lower intelligence, they would not themselves
resent the appearance of intellects far greater than their own."

"I have a feeling there's a lot more in that answer than meets the eye.
Can you estimate to what extent we would surpass the Challon?"

"If my Challon memory serves me, they had no knowledge of any
mind-structure of a capacity remotely approaching that of Man. It is
a maze, incredibly complex, with far-reaching resources I can only
guess at. The Challon part of my mind has the profoundest admiration
for a superb mechanism it can only dimly comprehend, but beneath the
Challon"--the voice dropped almost to a whisper--"beneath the Challon is
the dog, and the dog sees his god." The power of that factor he had not
considered.

Phil laughed uneasily, both shocked and repelled.

"I hope you're joking. We sound like the sweet-smelling Flower of
Creation! When a dog reaches the level you ... um ... Homer has, it
becomes Man's equal, not his pet."

"Until Man's advance thrusts the dog back to an even lower relative
position, as it inevitably must when ... if ... Man comes into his own.
I told you I dared not leave myself isolated and speechless by clearing
the simple short-circuit immobilizing Timmy. Now you see why I dared not
go even farther and release--untrained _and with no hope of adequate
training_--the true Homo superior, the transcendent man."

"That's like turning a tiger loose in a kindergarten! Give a man a
really high-powered intellect and for all his shortcomings--"

"The intellect is nothing. The data, the circumstances, the influences,
the environment that shape the intellect, _these_ are what count. Your
theorists say that although Man may some day create wonderful mechanical
brains with a creative capacity almost equal to Man's own, you can never
create a brain that is your superior. That is true, and the reasoning is
obvious. In a more limited sense, your body repairs itself daily but it
cannot improve on itself, it cannot spontaneously develop functions it
never had--_it cannot even repair severe damage without outside help_.
The same applies to the mind. A sick mind cannot achieve the objectivity
needed to repair itself, if the damage is too great. No, the intellect
is nothing until it learns. What would Timmy have learned, and from
whom? Take a minute to think of _all_ the connotations." Phil thought of
some of them, uneasily. "Assume that from the start his status as Homo
superior was recognized ... is that a fair assumption?"

"It ... ah ... would sooner or later become apparent."

"After how much damage had been done that could not be undone, since
Homo sapiens cannot ever be competent to guide and train Homo superior?"

"Well ... what about what he could learn from your Challon mind?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I would have no voice and no assurance that telepathy would be
possible. No influence that I could exert on him at any time could hold
him, if other factors impelled him to break free. A few months ago I
recalled a formula known to the Challon and with nothing more than
household chemicals prepared the quick and harmless anaesthetic I used
with you. What brought it to mind was a side-reaction reported as a
curiosity in one of the scientific journals Jerr ... Dad subscribes to.
It had an unexpected side-reaction for me, too, making direct telepathic
contact possible with you, but only under difficult and limited
conditions."

"There's a fortune in that alone--"

"That was an unworthy thought, Phil, typical of insecurity. I dare not
turn loose an immature, untrained, Homo superior, the only one of his
kind."

"But why the only one? Why not others as well so that they could work
in unison?"

"Don't you understand yet? _You are not sane!_ This planet is a
hell-house of disordered personalities, a place of horror, a
plague-spot. Suppose I had retained Timmy as my voice and planned on
releasing the inhibited potential of many people. I would have to start
with one man _and that one man would at once become my master_! If he
wished, he could be the master of all the earth. Could I risk that?"

"We have men of good moral character--"

"By what standards acceptable to all? A good churchman, perhaps, whose
first thought would be to bring everyone into the saving grace of his
religion? Or an atheist, who would take care that no rascally churchman
got the upper hand? Can you think of any man who does not have strong
opinions on at least one subject? Who does not have one thing that he
is a little bit more afraid of than anything else? One man who could
be raised to power first and not insist on at least one positive or
negative qualification for all who were permitted to follow? Something
they must either be or not be? Yourself, for example.

"Would you suggest that a Russian be chosen first? Or a Frenchman or an
Englishman? Or am I wrong in thinking you would 'naturally' want one of
your own countrymen to be chosen, purely as a precaution? But which one
of your countrymen? Among all your acquaintances, is there even one whom
you would trust not to react emotionally on at least one count, thus
automatically rendering him unfit to play god? Bearing in mind that the
first human being to find his full potential placed at his command will
be a titan with the power to prevent any peer being raised to oppose
him, would you feel safe with the choice of anyone except--yourself?"

"Are we that bad?"

"At birth, no, but from birth onward you are exposed to infection and
you sicken to a greater or lesser degree depending on the concentration
of infection around you. Let me answer you this way. Suppose the
spaceship were found and examined, what would happen? Among other tools
there is a prospecting instrument on board that is a rough approximation
of a disintegration beam--it punches neat holes in solid rock by a
process that leaves an exceedingly heavy dust behind--for a short while.
Then something happens to the molecular bonds of the heavy dust, and the
little holes become very big holes. Its principles would take you some
years to work out, but its manufacture and operation are fairly obvious.
What would be the fate of that very useful tool?"

"I can't deny that its possibilities as a weapon would be seized upon,
but with such a weapon--"

"Ah, yes--no one would dare to go to war. At any rate, not with the
country possessing the weapon."

"It could stop all war."

"If your part of the world threatened the other part of the world and
put a halo around the 'or else'. What would the other part of the world
do when the first news of the spaceship leaked out, as it would do
immediately?"

"O. K.--I guess you know as well as I do."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I'm not trying to ride you, Phil, but I want you to see that Fear
and a desire for the security you can never know in your present
state dominate almost every important act. As a people, a race, a
species, you are unsane. What am I to do? To die in peace, leaving you
as you are, without hope or help, is against every Challon instinct.
To leave unrealized the human potential with its tremendous promise
is unthinkable. Your race might destroy itself before your secret is
rediscovered millennia from now, and the greatest wonder of creation
be lost forever. Even the spaceship which I have failed to destroy
with its innocent secrets, could destroy you simply by being found.
What am I to do?"

"I ... think you already have an answer."

"Yes, with your consent and only with your consent."

"You have it."

"You don't know--"

"You have it, I said. I trust you."

"Man puts his faith in Dog? Well, it will not be for the first time.
Remember us, Man, when you come into your own. Now--I must invade your
mind, without reserve. You understand? Nothing known to you will be
unknown to me. Are you willing?"

"Another of those Mickey Finns?"

"Yes, it is the only way. I will plant certain inflexible prohibitions
which will forever destroy your self-will in regard to certain courses
of action--they will be ones which you might at some time feel to be
wise, but which I know to be ultimately destructive. In return, I can
give you a measure of sanity greater than you have known. You will lose
your hags, but you will never be entirely your own master again. You
will follow the course I have planned for you for the rest of your life.
It is the best I can do with my limited ability, and I cannot guarantee
that I am doing what is right."

"And Timmy?"

"I have already seeded in his memory banks--a careful and painstaking
job this time!--all the memories and knowledge appropriate to the boy
his parents think him to have been, plus other information which will
become available to him at the right time. Every day for eight years I
gave him the memories for that day, planning for the time when I could
pay my debt by releasing him."

"You take eight years that were otherwise useless to him and give him
the rest of his life for his own. Fair enough."

"No, his life is not his own. It belongs to his whole race. Your work
will be to supervise his training until the time is ripe, and then
to awaken the dormant memories that will tell him what has happened
between us."

"How do I do that?"

"Think of it as long-term posthypnotic suggestion. It is one of the
least complicated matters to arrange. A simple, spoken phrase that you
will not remember until the right moment will be sufficient to trigger
the memory release. We must hurry now. Homer's breathing--can you hear
it? His lungs have almost failed. After I enter your mind, my last act
will be to release the simple block that makes Timmy an imbecile ...
he will awaken and not know that he has slept all his life until this
moment when he becomes in actuality an ordinary, quite intelligent boy.
He will not grieve unduly for Homer, and I who have two bodies and am at
home in neither of them will be a record that will finally be erased.
Are you ready?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"No--wait. I must know what all this is leading to!"

"We have so little time! Well, then, it is leading to broken hearts, to
hatred, and to injustice. Perhaps to martyrdom, perhaps to glory. If my
plans fail, your lot will be public anathema as a fool or a murderer,
for I will prohibit you from ever clearing yourself by speaking the
truth about it."

"Who would believe it!"

"Enough would become curious. A little research along the right lines
and you would prematurely learn your own secret. Then a race of mad
demigods would be loosed through the void, an all-conquering scourge
instead of a blessing. I would sooner have your whole race die with your
very existence unsuspected, than have you live in infamy, the unchecked
tyrants of the stars. Not even the Challon could stand against you,
nor could they coerce a single one of you whose whole potential had been
released."

"Then what hope--"

"Timmy's newly-awakened mind will be completely sane. The aids I have
given it may keep it sufficiently sane for the next few years, despite
infection on all sides. In those years you will watch over him and
accumulate the funds that will be needed. That will not be difficult.
You must buy the lands surrounding the spaceship and build a laboratory
where you will conduct some dangerous experiments, thus explaining the
need for an isolated location. The laboratory is only a blind. The ship
must be freed from the swamp and repaired in some minor respects, then
an 'accidental explosion' one night will destroy the buildings to cover
the take-off. Timmy will be presumed killed in the explosion. His
parents will grieve, the public may blame you, and you will sink into
obscurity. You may live long enough to learn whether Timmy ever
succeeded in reaching Challon in a spaceship not designed for his race.
My memories and implanted commands will constantly guide and instruct
him--"

"How ... how old must he be?"

"As young as possible. As soon as all is ready. Tomorrow, if that were
possible."

"A child!"

"For at least a little while he will be more than the equal of a 'good'
man. Child, or youth, or man, I will free him from fear and loneliness
on the long voyage. If he reaches Challon, they will understand and
perhaps not think I have blundered too badly. They will heal him, study
him, free him. Then it will be his problem to free his race. If you are
very lucky, you may still be alive at that time."

"And if he never reaches--"

"You will never know. Are you ready?"

Phil looked desperately at the setting sun and the long, long shadows,
as though he were a doomed man awaiting execution.

"Get on with it," he said huskily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Very little happened. There was a small lapse of time during which
an observer would have seen certain lines of tension vanish almost
magically from the man's face--might even have thought that some
years seemed to drop from his age. Presently the man roused himself,
stretching with the careless vigor of a youth as he experienced a serene
peace of mind that he had not known since he was very young indeed. He
glanced casually at the boy seated near him--a boy who looked at the
world with an air of fleeting puzzlement--then dropped on his knees and
cradled an ugly, grizzled head in his arms. A last flicker enlivened the
eyes and a dry tongue touched his hand just once.

That was all.


THE END

[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Astounding Science
Fiction October 1955. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence
that the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Short Life, by Francis Donovan

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SHORT LIFE ***

***** This file should be named 23928-8.txt or 23928-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/3/9/2/23928/

Produced by Greg Weeks, David Garcia and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
