The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Sky Trap, by Frank Belknap Long

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Sky Trap

Author: Frank Belknap Long

Release Date: January 3, 2008 [EBook #24151]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SKY TRAP ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Alexander Bauer and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









             [Illustration: _Nothing affected it._]

                          The SKY TRAP

                      by FRANK BELKNAP LONG


Lawton enjoyed a good fight. He stood happily trading blows with
Slashaway Tommy, his lean-fleshed torso gleaming with sweat. He
preferred to work the pugnacity out of himself slowly, to savor it as
it ebbed.

"Better luck next time, Slashaway," he said, and unlimbered a left hook
that thudded against his opponent's jaw with such violence that the big,
hairy ape crumpled to the resin and rolled over on his back.

Lawton brushed a lock of rust-colored hair back from his brow and stared
down at the limp figure lying on the descending stratoship's slightly
tilted athletic deck.

"Good work, Slashaway," he said. "You're primitive and beetle-browed,
but you've got what it takes."

Lawton flattered himself that he was the opposite of primitive. High in
the sky he had predicted the weather for eight days running, with far
more accuracy than he could have put into a punch.

They'd flash his report all over Earth in a couple of minutes now. From
New York to London to Singapore and back. In half an hour he'd be
donning street clothes and stepping out feeling darned good.

He had fulfilled his weekly obligation to society by manipulating
meteorological instruments for forty-five minutes, high in the warm,
upper stratosphere and worked off his pugnacity by knocking down a
professional gym slugger. He would have a full, glorious week now to
work off all his other drives.

The stratoship's commander, Captain Forrester, had come up, and was
staring at him reproachfully. "Dave, I don't hold with the reforming
Johnnies who want to re-make human nature from the ground up. But you've
got to admit our generation knows how to keep things humming with a
minimum of stress. We don't have world wars now because we work off our
pugnacity by sailing into gym sluggers eight or ten times a week. And
since our romantic emotions can be taken care of by tactile television
we're not at the mercy of every brainless bit of fluff's calculated
ankle appeal."

Lawton turned, and regarded him quizzically. "Don't you suppose I
realize that? You'd think I just blew in from Mars."

"All right. We have the outlets, the safety valves. They are supposed to
keep us civilized. But you don't derive any benefit from them."

"The heck I don't. I exchange blows with Slashaway every time I board
the Perseus. And as for women--well, there's just one woman in the world
for me, and I wouldn't exchange her for all the Turkish images in the
tactile broadcasts from Stamboul."

"Yes, I know. But you work off your primitive emotions with too much
gusto. Even a cast-iron gym slugger can bruise. That last blow
was--brutal. Just because Slashaway gets thumped and thudded all over by
the medical staff twice a week doesn't mean he can take--"

The stratoship lurched suddenly. The deck heaved up under Lawton's feet,
hurling him against Captain Forrester and spinning both men around so
that they seemed to be waltzing together across the ship. The still limp
gym slugger slid downward, colliding with a corrugated metal bulkhead
and sloshing back and forth like a wet mackerel.

A full minute passed before Lawton could put a stop to that. Even while
careening he had been alive to Slashaway's peril, and had tried to leap
to his aid. But the ship's steadily increasing gyrations had hurled him
away from the skipper and against a massive vaulting horse, barking the
flesh from his shins and spilling him with violence onto the deck.

He crawled now toward the prone gym slugger on his hands and knees, his
temples thudding. The gyrations ceased an instant before he reached
Slashaway's side. With an effort he lifted the big man up, propped him
against the bulkhead and shook him until his teeth rattled. "Slashaway,"
he muttered. "Slashaway, old fellow."

Slashaway opened blurred eyes, "Phew!" he muttered. "You sure socked me
hard, sir."

"You went out like a light," explained Lawton gently. "A minute before
the ship lurched."

"The ship _lurched_, sir?"

"Something's very wrong, Slashaway. The ship isn't moving. There are no
vibrations and--Slashaway, are you hurt? Your skull thumped against that
bulkhead so hard I was afraid--"

"Naw, I'm okay. Whatd'ya mean, the ship ain't moving? How could it
stop?"

Lawton said. "I don't know, Slashaway." Helping the gym slugger to his
feet he stared apprehensively about him. Captain Forrester was kneeling
on the resin testing his hocks for sprains with splayed fingers, his
features twitching.

"Hurt badly, sir?"

The Commander shook his head. "I don't think so. Dave, we are twenty
thousand feet up, so how in hell could we be stationary in space?"

"It's all yours, skipper."

"I must say you're helpful."

Forrester got painfully to his feet and limped toward the athletic
compartment's single quartz port--a small circle of radiance on a level
with his eyes. As the port sloped downward at an angle of nearly sixty
degrees all he could see was a diffuse glimmer until he wedged his brow
in the observation visor and stared downward.

Lawton heard him suck in his breath sharply. "Well, sir?"

"There are thin cirrus clouds directly beneath us. They're not moving."

Lawton gasped, the sense of being in an impossible situation swelling to
nightmare proportions within him. What could have happened?

                *       *       *       *       *

Directly behind him, close to a bulkhead chronometer, which was clicking
out the seconds with unabashed regularity, was a misty blue visiplate
that merely had to be switched on to bring the pilots into view.

The Commander hobbled toward it, and manipulated a rheostat. The two
pilots appeared side by side on the screen, sitting amidst a spidery
network of dully gleaming pipe lines and nichrome humidification units.
They had unbuttoned their high-altitude coats and their stratosphere
helmets were resting on their knees. The Jablochoff candle light which
flooded the pilot room accentuated the haggardness of their features,
which were a sickly cadaverous hue.

The captain spoke directly into the visiplate. "What's wrong with the
ship?" he demanded. "Why aren't we descending? Dawson, you do the
talking!"

One of the pilots leaned tensely forward, his shoulders jerking. "We
don't know, sir. The rotaries went dead when the ship started gyrating.
We can't work the emergency torps and the temperature is rising."

"But--it defies all logic," Forrester muttered. "How could a metal ship
weighing tons be suspended in the air like a balloon? It is stationary,
but it is not buoyant. We seem in all respects to be _frozen in_."

"The explanation may be simpler than you dream," Lawton said. "When
we've found the key."

The Captain swung toward him. "Could _you_ find the key, Dave?"

"I should like to try. It may be hidden somewhere on the ship, and then
again, it may not be. But I should like to go over the ship with a
fine-tooth comb, and then I should like to go over _outside_,
thoroughly. Suppose you make me an emergency mate and give me a carte
blanche, sir."

Lawton got his carte blanche. For two hours he did nothing spectacular,
but he went over every inch of the ship. He also lined up the crew and
pumped them. The men were as completely in the dark as the pilots and
the now completely recovered Slashaway, who was following Lawton about
like a doting seal.

"You're a right guy, sir. Another two or three cracks and my noggin
would've split wide open."

"But not like an eggshell, Slashaway. Pig iron develops fissures under
terrific pounding but your cranium seems to be more like tempered steel.
Slashaway, you won't understand this, but I've got to talk to somebody
and the Captain is too busy to listen.

"I went over the entire ship because I thought there might be a hidden
source of buoyancy somewhere. It would take a lot of air bubbles to
turn this ship into a balloon, but there are large vacuum chambers under
the multiple series condensers in the engine room which conceivably
could have sucked in a helium leakage from the carbon pile valves. And
there are bulkhead porosities which could have clogged."

"Yeah," muttered Slashaway, scratching his head. "I see what you mean,
sir."

"It was no soap. There's nothing _inside_ the ship that could possibly
keep us up. Therefore there must be something outside that isn't air. We
know there _is_ air outside. We've stuck our heads out and sniffed it.
And we've found out a curious thing.

"Along with the oxygen there is water vapor, but it isn't H2O. It's HO.
A molecular arrangement like that occurs in the upper Solar atmosphere,
but nowhere on Earth. And there's a thin sprinkling of hydrocarbon
molecules out there too. Hydrocarbon appears ordinarily as methane gas,
but out there it rings up as CH. Methane is CH4. And there are also
scandium oxide molecules making unfamiliar faces at us. And oxide of
boron--with an equational limp."

"Gee," muttered Slashaway. "We're up against it, eh?"

Lawton was squatting on his hams beside an emergency 'chute opening on
the deck of the Penguin's weather observatory. He was letting down a
spliced beryllium plumb line, his gaze riveted on the slowly turning
horizontal drum of a windlass which contained more than two hundred feet
of gleaming metal cordage.

Suddenly as he stared the drum stopped revolving. Lawton stiffened, a
startled expression coming into his face. He had been playing a hunch
that had seemed as insane, rationally considered, as his wild idea about
the bulkhead porosities. For a moment he was stunned, unable to believe
that he had struck pay dirt. The winch indicator stood at one hundred
and three feet, giving him a rich, fruity yield of startlement.

One hundred feet below him the plummet rested on something solid that
sustained it in space. Scarcely breathing, Lawton leaned over the
windlass and stared downward. There was nothing visible between the ship
and the fleecy clouds far below except a tiny black dot resting on
vacancy and a thin beryllium plumb line ascending like an interrogation
point from the dot to the 'chute opening.

"You see something down there?" Slashaway asked.

Lawton moved back from the windlass, his brain whirling. "Slashaway
there's a solid surface directly beneath us, but it's completely
invisible."

"You mean it's like a frozen cloud, sir?"

"No, Slashaway. It doesn't shimmer, or deflect light. Congealed water
vapor would sink instantly to earth."

"You think it's all around us, sir?"

Lawton stared at Slashaway aghast. In his crude fumblings the gym
slugger had ripped a hidden fear right out of his subconsciousness into
the light.

"I don't know, Slashaway," he muttered. "I'll get at that next."

                *       *       *       *       *

A half hour later Lawton sat beside the captain's desk in the control
room, his face drained of all color. He kept his gaze averted as he
talked. A man who succeeds too well with an unpleasant task may develop
a subconscious sense of guilt.

"Sir, we're suspended inside a hollow sphere which resembles a huge,
floating soap bubble. Before we ripped through it it must have had a
plastic surface. But now the tear has apparently healed over, and the
shell all around us is as resistant as steel. We're completely bottled
up, sir. I shot rocket leads in all directions to make certain."

The expression on Forrester's face sold mere amazement down the river.
He could not have looked more startled if the nearer planets had
yielded their secrets chillingly, and a super-race had appeared suddenly
on Earth.

"Good God, Dave. Do you suppose something has happened to space?"

Lawton raised his eyes with a shudder. "Not necessarily, sir. Something
has happened to _us_. We're floating through the sky in a huge,
invisible bubble of some sort, but we don't know whether it has anything
to do with space. It may be a meteorological phenomenon."

"You say we're floating?"

"We're floating slowly westward. The clouds beneath us have been
receding for fifteen or twenty minutes now."

"Phew!" muttered Forrester. "That means we've got to--"

He broke off abruptly. The Perseus' radio operator was standing in the
doorway, distress and indecision in his gaze. "Our reception is
extremely sporadic, sir," he announced. "We can pick up a few of the
stronger broadcasts, but our emergency signals haven't been answered."

"Keep trying," Forrester ordered.

"Aye, aye, sir."

The captain turned to Lawton. "Suppose we call it a bubble. Why are we
suspended like this, immovably? Your rocket leads shot up, and the plumb
line dropped one hundred feet. Why should the ship itself remain
stationary?"

Lawton said: "The bubble must possess sufficient internal equilibrium to
keep a big, heavy body suspended at its core. In other words, we must be
suspended at the hub of converging energy lines."

"You mean we're surrounded by an electromagnetic field?"

Lawton frowned. "Not necessarily, sir. I'm simply pointing out that
there must be an energy tug of _some_ sort involved. Otherwise the ship
would be resting on the inner surface of the bubble."

Forrester nodded grimly. "We should be thankful, I suppose, that we can
move about inside the ship. Dave, do you think a man could descend to
the inner surface?"

"I've no doubt that a man could, sir. Shall I let myself down?"

"Absolutely not. Damn it, Dave, I need your energies inside the ship. I
could wish for a less impulsive first officer, but a man in my
predicament can't be choosy."

"Then what _are_ your orders, sir?"

"Orders? Do I have to order you to think? Is working something out for
yourself such a strain? We're drifting straight toward the Atlantic
Ocean. What do you propose to do about that?"

"I expect I'll have to do my best, sir."

Lawton's "best" conflicted dynamically with the captain's orders. Ten
minutes later he was descending, hand over hand, on a swaying emergency
ladder.

"Tough-fibered Davie goes down to look around," he grumbled.

He was conscious that he was flirting with danger. The air outside was
breathable, but would the diffuse, unorthodox gases injure his lungs? He
didn't know, couldn't be sure. But he had to admit that he felt all
right _so far_. He was seventy feet below the ship and not at all dizzy.
When he looked down he could see the purple domed summits of mountains
between gaps in the fleecy cloud blanket.

He couldn't see the Atlantic Ocean--yet. He descended the last thirty
feet with mounting confidence. At the end of the ladder he braced
himself and let go.

He fell about six feet, landing on his rump on a spongy surface that
bounced him back and forth. He was vaguely incredulous when he found
himself sitting in the sky staring through his spread legs at clouds and
mountains.

He took a deep breath. It struck him that the sensation of falling could
be present without movement downward through space. He was beginning to
experience such a sensation. His stomach twisted and his brain spun.

He was suddenly sorry he had tried this. It was so damnably unnerving he
was afraid of losing all emotional control. He stared up, his eyes
squinting against the sun. Far above him the gleaming, wedge-shaped bulk
of the Perseus loomed colossally, blocking out a fifth of the sky.

Lowering his right hand he ran his fingers over the invisible surface
beneath him. The surface felt rubbery, moist.

He got swayingly to his feet and made a perilous attempt to walk through
the sky. Beneath his feet the mysterious surface crackled, and little
sparks flew up about his legs. Abruptly he sat down again, his face
ashen.

From the emergency 'chute opening far above a massive head appeared.
"You all right, sir," Slashaway called, his voice vibrant with concern.

"Well, I--"

"You'd better come right up, sir. Captain's orders."

"All right," Lawton shouted. "Let the ladder down another ten feet."

Lawton ascended rapidly, resentment smouldering within him. What right
had the skipper to interfere? He had passed the buck, hadn't he?

                *       *       *       *       *

Lawton got another bad jolt the instant he emerged through the 'chute
opening. Captain Forrester was leaning against a parachute rack gasping
for breath, his face a livid hue.

Slashaway looked equally bad. His jaw muscles were twitching and he was
tugging at the collar of his gym suit.

Forrester gasped: "Dave, I tried to move the ship. I didn't know you
were outside."

"Good God, you didn't know--"

"The rotaries backfired and used up all the oxygen in the engine room.
Worse, there's been a carbonic oxide seepage. The air is contaminated
throughout the ship. We'll have to open the ventilation valves
immediately. I've been waiting to see if--if you could breathe down
there. You're all right, aren't you? The air _is_ breathable?"

Lawton's face was dark with fury. "I was an experimental rat in the sky,
eh?"

"Look, Dave, we're all in danger. Don't stand there glaring at me.
Naturally I waited. I have my crew to think of."

"Well, think of them. Get those valves open before we all have
convulsions."

A half hour later charcoal gas was mingling with oxygen outside the
ship, and the crew was breathing it in again gratefully. Thinly
dispersed, and mixed with oxygen it seemed all right. But Lawton had
misgivings. No matter how attenuated a lethal gas is it is never
entirely harmless. To make matters worse, they were over the Atlantic
Ocean.

Far beneath them was an emerald turbulence, half obscured by eastward
moving cloud masses. The bubble was holding, but the morale of the crew
was beginning to sag.

Lawton paced the control room. Deep within him unsuspected energies
surged. "We'll last until the oxygen is breathed up," he exclaimed.
"We'll have four or five days, at most. But we seem to be traveling
faster than an ocean liner. With luck, we'll be in Europe before we
become carbon dioxide breathers."

"Will that help matters, Dave?" said the captain wearily.

"If we can blast our way out, it will."

The Captain's sagging body jackknifed erect. "Blast our way out? What do
you mean, Dave?"

"I've clamped expulsor disks on the cosmic ray absorbers and trained
them downward. A thin stream of accidental neutrons directed against the
bottom of the bubble may disrupt its energies--wear it thin. It's a
long gamble, but worth taking. We're staking nothing, remember?"

Forrester sputtered: "Nothing but our lives! If you blast a hole in the
bubble you'll destroy its energy balance. Did that occur to you? Inside
a lopsided bubble we may careen dangerously or fall into the sea before
we can get the rotaries started."

"I thought of that. The pilots are standing by to start the rotaries the
instant we lurch. If we succeed in making a rent in the bubble we'll
break out the helicoptic vanes and descend vertically. The rotaries
won't backfire again. I've had their burnt-out cylinder heads replaced."

An agitated voice came from the visiplate on the captain's desk: "Tuning
in, sir."

Lawton stopped pacing abruptly. He swung about and grasped the desk edge
with both hands, his head touching Forrester's as the two men stared
down at the horizontal face of petty officer James Caldwell.

Caldwell wasn't more than twenty-two or three, but the screen's
opalescence silvered his hair and misted the outlines of his jaw, giving
him an aspect of senility.

"Well, young man," Forrester growled. "What is it? What do you want?"

The irritation in the captain's voice seemed to increase Caldwell's
agitation. Lawton had to say: "All right, lad, let's have it," before
the information which he had seemed bursting to impart could be wrenched
out of him.

It came in erratic spurts. "The bubble is all blooming, sir. All around
inside there are big yellow and purple growths. It started up above,
and--and spread around. First there was just a clouding over of the sky,
sir, and then--stalks shot out."

For a moment Lawton felt as though all sanity had been squeezed from his
brain. Twice he started to ask a question and thought better of it.

Pumpings were superfluous when he could confirm Caldwell's statement in
half a minute for himself. If Caldwell had cracked up--

Caldwell hadn't cracked. When Lawton walked to the quartz port and
stared down all the blood drained from his face.

The vegetation was luxuriant, and unearthly. Floating in the sky were
serpentine tendrils as thick as a man's wrist, purplish flowers and ropy
fungus growths. They twisted and writhed and shot out in all directions,
creating a tangle immediately beneath him and curving up toward the ship
amidst a welter of seed pods.

He could see the seeds dropping--dropping from pods which reminded him
of the darkly horned skate egg sheaths which he had collected in his
boyhood from sea beaches at ebb tide.

It was the _unwholesomeness_ of the vegetation which chiefly unnerved
him. It looked dank, malarial. There were decaying patches on the fungus
growths and a miasmal mist was descending from it toward the ship.

The control room was completely still when he turned from the quartz
port to meet Forrester's startled gaze.

"Dave, what does it mean?" The question burst explosively from the
captain's lips.

"It means--life has appeared and evolved and grown rotten ripe inside
the bubble, sir. All in the space of an hour or so."

"But that's--_impossible_."

Lawton shook his head. "It isn't at all, sir. We've had it drummed into
us that evolution proceeds at a snailish pace, but what proof have we
that it can't mutate with lightning-like rapidity? I've told you there
are gases outside we can't even make in a chemical laboratory, molecular
arrangements that are alien to earth."

"But plants derive nourishment from the soil," interpolated Forrester.

"I know. But if there are alien gases in the air the surface of the
bubble must be reeking with unheard of chemicals. There may be compounds
inside the bubble which have so sped up organic processes that a
hundred million year cycle of mutations has been telescoped into an
hour."

Lawton was pacing the floor again. "It would be simpler to assume that
seeds of existing plants became somehow caught up and imprisoned in the
bubble. But the plants around us never existed on earth. I'm no
botanist, but I know what the Congo has on tap, and the great rain
forests of the Amazon."

"Dave, if the growth continues it will fill the bubble. It will choke
off all our air."

"Don't you suppose I realize that? We've got to destroy that growth
before it destroys us."

                *       *       *       *       *

It was pitiful to watch the crew's morale sag. The miasmal taint of the
ominously proliferating vegetation was soon pervading the ship,
spreading demoralization everywhere.

It was particularly awful straight down. Above a ropy tangle of livid
vines and creepers a kingly stench weed towered, purplish and bloated
and weighted down with seed pods.

It seemed sentient, somehow. It was growing so fast that the evil odor
which poured from it could be correlated with the increase of tension
inside the ship. From that particular plant, minute by slow minute,
there surged a continuously mounting offensiveness, like nothing Lawton
had ever smelt before.

The bubble had become a blooming horror sailing slowly westward above
the storm-tossed Atlantic. And all the chemical agents which Lawton
sprayed through the ventilation valves failed to impede the growth or
destroy a single seed pod.

It was difficult to kill plant life with chemicals which were not
harmful to man. Lawton took dangerous risks, increasing the
unwholesomeness of their rapidly dwindling air supply by spraying out a
thin diffusion of problematically poisonous acids.

It was no sale. The growths increased by leaps and bounds, as though
determined to show their resentment of the measures taken against them
by marshalling all their forces in a demoralizing plantkrieg.

Thwarted, desperate, Lawton played his last card. He sent five members
of the crew, equipped with blow guns. They returned screaming. Lawton
had to fortify himself with a double whiskey soda before he could face
the look of reproach in their eyes long enough to get all of the
prickles out of them.

From then on pandemonium reigned. Blue funk seized the petty officers
while some of the crew ran amuck. One member of the engine watch
attacked four of his companions with a wrench; another went into the
ship's kitchen and slashed himself with a paring knife. The assistant
engineer leapt through a 'chute opening, after avowing that he preferred
impalement to suffocation.

He _was_ impaled. It was horrible. Looking down Lawton could see his
twisted body dangling on a crimson-stippled thornlike growth forty feet
in height.

Slashaway was standing at his elbow in that Waterloo moment, his
rough-hewn features twitching. "I can't stand it, sir. It's driving me
squirrelly."

"I know, Slashaway. There's something worse than marijuana weed down
there."

Slashaway swallowed hard. "That poor guy down there did the wise thing."

Lawton husked: "Stamp on that idea, Slashaway--kill it. We're stronger
than he was. There isn't an ounce of weakness in us. We've got what it
takes."

"A guy can stand just so much."

"Bosh. There's no limit to what a man can stand."

From the visiplate behind them came an urgent voice: "Radio room tuning
in, sir."

Lawton swung about. On the flickering screen the foggy outlines of a
face appeared and coalesced into sharpness.

The Perseus radio operator was breathless with excitement. "Our
reception is improving, sir. European short waves are coming in strong.
The static is terrific, but we're getting every station on the
continent, and most of the American stations."

Lawton's eyes narrowed to exultant slits. He spat on the deck, a slow
tremor shaking him.

"Slashaway, did you hear that? _We've done it._ We've won against hell
and high water."

"We done what, sir?"

"The bubble, you ape--it must be wearing thin. Hell's bells, do you have
to stand there gaping like a moronic ninepin? I tell you, we've got it
licked."

"I can't stand it, sir. I'm going nuts."

"No you're not. You're slugging the thing inside you that wants to quit.
Slashaway, I'm going to give the crew a first-class pep talk. There'll
be no stampeding while I'm in command here."

He turned to the radio operator. "Tune in the control room. Tell the
captain I want every member of the crew lined up on this screen
immediately."

The face in the visiplate paled. "I can't do that, sir. Ship's
regulations--"

Lawton transfixed the operator with an irate stare. "The captain told
you to report directly to me, didn't he?"

"Yes sir, but--"

"If you don't want to be cashiered, _snap into it_."

"Yes--yessir."

The captain's startled face preceded the duty-muster visiview by a full
minute, seeming to project outward from the screen. The veins on his
neck were thick blue cords.

"Dave," he croaked. "Are you out of your mind? What good will talking do
_now_?"

"Are the men lined up?" Lawton rapped, impatiently.

Forrester nodded. "They're all in the engine room, Dave."

"Good. Block them in."

The captain's face receded, and a scene of tragic horror filled the
opalescent visiplate. The men were not standing at attention at all.
They were slumping against the Perseus' central charging plant in
attitudes of abject despair.

                *       *       *       *       *

Madness burned in the eyes of three or four of them. Others had torn
open their shirts, and raked their flesh with their nails. Petty officer
Caldwell was standing as straight as a totem pole, clenching and
unclenching his hands. The second assistant engineer was sticking out
his tongue. His face was deadpan, which made what was obviously a terror
reflex look like an idiot's grimace.

Lawton moistened his lips. "Men, listen to me. There is some sort of
plant outside that is giving off deliriant fumes. A few of us seem to be
immune to it.

"I'm not immune, but I'm fighting it, and all of you boys can fight it
too. I want you to fight it to the top of your courage. You can fight
_anything_ when you know that just around the corner is freedom from a
beastliness that deserves to be licked--even if it's only a plant.

"Men, we're blasting our way free. The bubble's wearing thin. Any minute
now the plants beneath us may fall with a soggy plop into the Atlantic
Ocean.

"I want every man jack aboard this ship to stand at his post and obey
orders. Right this minute you look like something the cat dragged in.
But most men who cover themselves with glory start off looking even
worse than you do."

He smiled wryly.

"I guess that's all. I've never had to make a speech in my life, and I'd
hate like hell to start now."

It was petty officer Caldwell who started the chant. He started it, and
the men took it up until it was coming from all of them in a
full-throated roar.

    I'm a tough, true-hearted skyman,
      Careless and all that, d'ye see?
    Never at fate a railer,
      What is time or tide to me?

    All must die when fate shall will it,
      I can never die but once,
    I'm a tough, true-hearted skyman;
      He who fears death is a dunce.

Lawton squared his shoulders. With a crew like that nothing could stop
him! Ah, his energies were surging high. The deliriant weed held no
terrors for him now. They were stout-hearted lads and he'd go to hell
with them cheerfully, if need be.

It wasn't easy to wait. The next half hour was filled with a steadily
mounting tension as Lawton moved like a young tornado about the ship,
issuing orders and seeing that each man was at his post.

"Steady, Jimmy. The way to fight a deliriant is to keep your mind on a
set task. Keep sweating, lad."

"Harry, that winch needs tightening. We can't afford to miss a trick."

"Yeah, it will come suddenly. We've got to get the rotaries started the
instant the bottom drops out."

He was with the captain and Slashaway in the control room when it came.
There was a sudden, grinding jolt, and the captain's desk started moving
toward the quartz port, carrying Lawton with it.

"Holy Jiminy cricket," exclaimed Slashaway.

The deck tilted sharply; then righted itself. A sudden gush of clear,
cold air came through the ventilation valves as the triple rotaries
started up with a roar.

Lawton and the captain reached the quartz port simultaneously. Shoulder
to shoulder they stood staring down at the storm-tossed Atlantic,
electrified by what they saw.

Floating on the waves far beneath them was an undulating mass of
vegetation, its surface flecked with glinting foam. As it rose and fell
in waning sunlight a tainted seepage spread about it, defiling the clean
surface of the sea.

But it wasn't the floating mass which drew a gasp from Forrester, and
caused Lawton's scalp to prickle. Crawling slowly across that
Sargasso-like island of noxious vegetation was a huge, elongated shape
which bore a nauseous resemblance to a mottled garden slug.

Forrester was trembling visibly when he turned from the quartz port.

"God, Dave, that would have been the _last straw_. Animal life. Dave,
I--I can't realize we're actually out of it."

"We're out, all right," Lawton said, hoarsely. "Just in time, too.
Skipper, you'd better issue grog all around. The men will be needing it.
I'm taking mine straight. You've accused me of being primitive. Wait
till you see me an hour from now."

Dr. Stephen Halday stood in the door of his Appalachian mountain
laboratory staring out into the pine-scented dusk, a worried expression
on his bland, small-featured face. It had happened again. A portion of
his experiment had soared skyward, in a very loose group of highly
energized wavicles. He wondered if it wouldn't form a sort of
sub-electronic macrocosm high in the stratosphere, altering even the air
and dust particles which had spurted up with it, its uncharged atomic
particles combining with hydrogen and creating new molecular
arrangements.

If such were the case there would be eight of them now. _His_ bubbles,
floating through the sky. They couldn't possibly harm anything--way up
there in the stratosphere. But he felt a little uneasy about it all the
same. He'd have to be more careful in the future, he told himself. Much
more careful. He didn't want the Controllers to turn back the clock of
civilization a century by stopping all atom-smashing experiments.



   Transcriber's Note:

   This e-text was produced from Comet July 1941. Extensive
   research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright
   on this publication was renewed.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Sky Trap, by Frank Belknap Long

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SKY TRAP ***

***** This file should be named 24151.txt or 24151.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/4/1/5/24151/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Alexander Bauer and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
