Project Gutenberg's A Transmutation of Muddles, by Horace Brown Fyfe

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: A Transmutation of Muddles

Author: Horace Brown Fyfe

Illustrator: H. R. Van Dongen

Release Date: January 7, 2008 [EBook #24187]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A TRANSMUTATION OF MUDDLES ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Bruce Albrecht, Stephen Blundell
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net









 A
 TRANSMUTATION
 OF MUDDLES

 _An experienced horse-trader, bargain-haggler,
 and general swapper has a very special talent for
 turning two headaches into one aspirin pill...._

 By H. B. FYFE

 Illustrated by Van Dongen


The rugged little stellar scout ship flared down to the surface of Kappa
Orionis VII about a mile from the aboriginal village. The pilot,
Lieutenant Eric Haruhiku, scorched an open field, but pointed out to
Louis Mayne that he had been careful to disturb neither woodland nor
shoreline.

"The Kappans are touchy about those, Judge," he explained, "They fish a
lot, as you'd guess from all these shallow seas, and they pick fruit in
the forests; but they don't farm much."

"No use provoking trouble," Mayne approved. "It's a long way from
Rigel."

"It's a longer way from Sol," said the pilot.

"Don't I know, boy! If it weren't, I'd be just another retired space
captain, quietly struggling with my ranch on Rigel IX. As it is, to get
the grant, I had to remain on call as an arbitrator."

"Somebody has to settle these things," said Haruhiku. "There's not much
law way out here, except what the Space Force can apply. Well, if you'll
excuse me, sir, I'll have them get out the helicopter and take us over
to the village."

"Let me see that last message again, before you go," Mayne requested.

The pilot extracted a sheet from his clipboard and handed it to Mayne as
he left. Mayne studied the text with little pleasure.

Terran Space Force headquarters on Rigel IX wished to inform him that
the long awaited envoy from Terra to Kappa Orionis VII not only had
arrived but had departed two days behind Mayne.

It was hoped, the communication continued, that nothing would interfere
with the desired objective of coming to some friendly agreement with the
Kappans that would permit Terran use of the planet as a base for
spaceships. The envoy, of course, was prepared to offer trade
inducements and various other forms of help to the semi-civilized
natives. Mayne was requested to lay whatever groundwork he could.

_In my spare time, no doubt_, he reflected. _I'm to settle this silly
business any way at all--as long as the natives get their way. But has
anybody told the government about insurance companies? If it costs money
or a lawsuit, will they back me up?_

He felt himself to be in a ridiculous dilemma. The Kappans were reported
to have seized a Terran spaceship as it landed to trade. Naturally, the
captain had squawked for help. He claimed he had crashed; his insurance
company thought otherwise; the Kappans seemed to have some entirely
different idea in mind. Mayne had been summoned into action to render a
decision, after the rough and ready system of these settlements on the
surface of Terra's sphere of explored space.

Regretfully, he made his way now to the cubbyhole allowed him on the
cramped scout, where he changed to a more formal tunic of a bright blue
he hoped would look impressive to native eyes. By the time he was ready,
the helicopter was waiting. He and Haruhiku entered, and the crewman at
the controls took off for the scene of the dispute.

Arriving over the village, they hovered a few minutes while Haruhiku
studied the lay of the land. The lieutenant had been to this world
before, long enough to pick up some of the language and customs, so
Mayne was content to follow his advice about landing a little way off
from a spaceship that towered outside the village.

They came down about a hundred yards away, between a rutted sort of road
and a long hut covered by a curved, thatched roof.

"They're expecting us," said Haruhiku, gesturing at the group before the
hut.

It consisted of half a dozen humans and several of the Kappan natives.
The latter, naturally, caught Mayne's eye first. The most imposing
individual among them stood about five feet tall. The planet being of
about the same mass as Terra, the Kappan probably weighed over two
hundred and fifty pounds. He was a rugged biped with something saurian
in his ancestry; for his skin was scaled, and bony plates grew into a
low crown upon his long skull. His arms and legs were heavy and bowed,
with joints obscured by thick muscles and loose skin. Mayne was struck
by the fancy that the Kappan's color, a blend of brown and olive, was
that of a small dragon who had achieved a good suntan. A yellow kilt was
his main article of attire, although he wore a few decorations of
polished bone.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the Terrans stepped forward. He wore a semimilitary uniform.

"I suppose you're Louis Mayne?" he asked.

"Right," answered Mayne. "You would be Captain Voorhis, of the
_Gemsbok_?"

[Illustration]

"Check. This here is Eemakh. He's more or less chief of the village, or
tribe, or whatever you wanna call it."

Mayne found his gaze sinking into catlike slits of jet in a pair of huge
orange eyes shaded by massive brow ridges. The native made some
statement in a clicking language that had a harsh, choppy rhythm.

"He welcomes you to Kappa," Haruhiku interpreted. "He hopes the gods
will not be displeased."

"What a warm welcome!" commented Mayne. "Have you been getting along
that well, Captain Voorhis?"

"Just about," said the spacer. "One of my boys knows a few words. Rest
of the time, we make signs. I gotta admit they ain't been too
unfriendly."

"But they _have_ seized your ship?"

"You're damn' right! That insurance guy they sent out don't see it that
way though."

"Where is this representative of the Belt Insurance Company?" asked
Mayne.

"Melin? His ship landed over on the other side of the village, about
half a mile. He oughta be along soon. Must've seen you land."

Mayne wondered whether it were necessary to await the arrival of the
insurance adjustor before asking any questions. To cover his hesitation,
he turned to take his first good look at the hull of the _Gemsbok_.

"What do they think they're doing?" he demanded, staring.

The _Gemsbok_ was--or had been--an ungraceful, thick starship on the
verge of aging into scrap. Towering here between the village and the
huge, bluish-green leaves of the Kappan forest, she was in the process
of being transformed into a planet-bound object of a certain weird
grace.

A framework was being constructed about the hull by a swarm of natives.
They had reached halfway up the ship, which served as a central column.
Much of the exterior appeared to be a network of strangely curved
sections of wood that had been given a high polish. Mayne suspected the
greenish highlights were reflections of the forest color.

"Bone," said Voorhis succinctly. "They collect it from things they catch
in the sea. Main supports of timber, of course, built to fit the hull."

"The fish here grow very large," put in Haruhiku. "If you could call
them fish, that is. I once saw them butchering what looked more like a
dinosaur."

Mayne realized that the bone framework formed a sort of curtain wall. At
the lower levels, some of the natives seemed to be experimenting with a
coating of wet leaves which they were molding to the wall.

"They've soaked them in something they boil out of fish parts," his
pilot explained. "Like the village roofs. When it dries, it's pretty
hard, even waterproof. The stink never dries out."

"But what do they have in their bony little brains?" asked Mayne. "Just
what is that mess supposed to be?"

"A temple, believe it or not," answered Voorhis. "They tell me I set her
down on land sacred to the great god Meeg!"

Mayne looked at Haruhiku.

"Oh, come on, now! I came all the way from--" He stopped as he noticed
the pilot's grave expression. "Oh! That sort of thing _could_ be
serious, I guess."

He imagined he had seen the chief, Eemakh, come alert at the mention of
the local god. Mayne sighed. It was going to be a long day.

He was saved for the time being by a hail from the direction of the
village. A procession was approaching along the set of ruts between
Mayne and the ship.

       *       *       *       *       *

The place of honor appeared to be occupied by a two-wheeled cart of
crude but massive design. Upon it rode a Kappan driver, two Kappans with
spears and the look of official guards, and a Terran with a death-grip
upon the side railing. A brace of truculent beasts of frighteningly
saurian mien shuffled ponderously along in the loose harness. From time
to time, one or the other would stumble over a turn in his rut and emit
a menacing rumble as if he suspected his team mate of causing the
misstep.

Before and behind this conveyance marched a guard of honor of Kappan
warriors. The rear contingent kept close to the cart, but the advance
party had opened a noticeable gap between themselves and the hulking
team.

The procession halted, the soldier in charge raised his spear in salute
to Eemakh, and the shaken Terran was assisted to dismount. He introduced
himself to Mayne as Robert Melin.

"Let's go over to the hut they made for us an' sit down," suggested
Voorhis.

Melin, a tall, gloomy blond whose civilian suit seemed a trifle formal
for the surroundings, acceded gratefully. He mopped the dust from his
long face and watched the cart being turned around.

The procession moved off in the direction of the village, the advance
guard stepping out especially smartly, and Mayne began to get his
conference arranged.

He learned that the evicted crew of the _Gemsbok_ had been living in the
hut nearby. Before it stood a long table with benches, all evidently
knocked together from recently felled timber. Melin was given credit for
this by Voorhis, since before the arrival of the insurance adjuster and
his crew, no power tools had been available to the men from the
_Gemsbok_.

Mayne took a place at the end of the table. Some of the _Gemsbok's_ crew
came out of the hut to watch. Most of the Kappan warriors attending the
chief took up stations between the table and the ship, in a manner
suggesting long habit. Mayne guessed that attempts had been made to
re-enter the ship.

He put Haruhiku at his right hand to translate should it be necessary.
Melin and Voorhis sat at his left, their backs to the hut. To the other
side of the table, Eemakh brought two Kappans who were explained to
Mayne as being the tribal high priest, Igrillik, and Kaynox, who
represented a sort of district overlord.

"I meant to land up by _their_ city," Voorhis put in, "but we hit some
bad winds up in the stratosphere. We got knocked around a bit in the
storm, and set down where we could."

"Well, tell me about the details," said Mayne. "I want to get this
straight from the start, if I can. By the way, Lieutenant Haruhiku,
explain to the chief that a special envoy is on the way, that we want
his friendship, and that he will be dealt with fairly."

He waited out the exchange of choppy speech between the pilot and
Eemakh.

"He says he is sure he will be fairly dealt with," reported Haruhiku.

"I wonder what he meant by that," murmured Mayne. "If we make a deal
here, and thereby with his overlord, will that cover enough territory to
be official?"

"As much as you can get together anywhere on this world, sir."

Mayne nodded, then turned to Captain Voorhis.

"Now about this so-called crash?" he prompted.

"Well, there was this storm, like I said. Trouble was we didn't expect
to hit it and ... well ... somebody took it in his head to blow some of
the fuel tanks for a crash landing. That's why I'm not claimin' anythin'
on the fuel," he finished, turning to Melin.

"We are perfectly willing to pay on that item," replied the insurance
man.

"Anyhow," continued Voorhis, "I set down here where we saw the open
spot, an' then of course we were stuck with nothin' to lift off with. It
looked all right. We'd unload our goods, an' if the local crowd couldn't
use them all, why they'd pass the rest on at a profit to themselves. So
we come out to palaver, an' then they won't let us go back in the ship.
We were just lucky my com man had sent out a landing report when it
looked like we piled up, or the Space Force patrol never woulda heard of
us."

"Was there any trouble?" asked Mayne. "Any unnecessary hostility?"

Voorhis considered, rubbing the back of his head thoughtfully.

"Well ... I suppose, lookin' at it their way, they coulda been a lot
rougher. A couple of punches got thrown, an' one of my boys got a spear
busted over his head, but mostly they acted ... well ... maybe more like
cops than cannibals."

"Just enforcing the native laws, eh?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Voorhis did not swallow that quite so graciously. He did not know or
care what the local laws might be, but he thought it suspicious in the
extreme that he should have plopped down exactly upon the spot chosen by
the natives for a temple.

"So do they have to use my ship to hang it on?" he finished plaintively.

"The company is in agreement with you there, captain," Melin put in.
"You see, Judge, our point is that nothing is really lost or seriously
damaged, neither ship nor cargo. They are merely being withheld from
their rightful owner, and we believe that puts the responsibility for
recovery upon the Terran government. Captain Voorhis has our entire
sympathy--"

"Yeah!" said Voorhis. "An' if I get my head sliced off tryin' to get at
that undamaged cargo, you'll come to my funeral! I say it's a loss!"

"Now, gentlemen!" interrupted Mayne. "Let me get on with this. Both of
you, I'm sure, realize that I'm not a lawyer in spite of being a special
judge. If the colonies way out here had enough lawyers to spare, I
certainly wouldn't be sticking my head into this. Nevertheless, any
decision I make here will be regarded as legally binding by the
government of Rigel IX, so let us remain level-headed."

"Very well, Judge," said Melin. "Here are the figures on--"

"Please round them off," said Mayne. "If I have to listen to a long list
in centicredits, I'll probably go off to see what kind of beer they brew
here."

"You wouldn't like it," muttered Voorhis, staring sourly at the village.

"No doubt," grinned Mayne.

Melin swallowed and returned to an inner pocket a sheaf of papers he had
withdrawn.

"Speaking very loosely," he went on, as if hating to do anything
loosely, "the coverage was about as follows: for the _Gemsbok_ herself,
two million; but that was really a nominal figure accorded as a sort of
courtesy. Otherwise, at her true worth, the authorities would hardly
have permitted Captain Voorhis to take her into space--"

"Get on with it," urged Mayne, to forestall any wrangle.

"Er ... yes. Then on the cargo, the purchase cost of two hundred
thousand credits."

Voorhis visibly flinched and began to acquire a ruddy hue.

"And, finally, on the fuel load, the cost price of three hundred
thousand. Of course, Judge, there are detailed clauses as to normal use
of fuel. He was actually insured against defects, premature explosions,
accidental loss, et cetera."

Mayne did some addition in his head.

"So your company," he said aloud, "is prepared to pay two and a half
million for the loss sustained by Captain Voorhis. What seems to be
wrong with that?"

Both men began to talk but Melin, struggling less with temper, got the
lead.

"Actually," he said, "we feel liable for only three hundred thousand."

_Now it will get tough_, thought Mayne. He silently awaited elucidation.

The combined stares of all parties, including the enigmatic glance of
Eemakh, calmed the spluttering Voorhis. Melin continued.

"In the first place, the true value of the ship, even if we consider her
to be incapacitated--which we do not--is only about one hundred and
fifty thousand."

"She's worth more than that as scrap!" bellowed Voorhis.

"No, captain, just about that. It is exactly how we valued her. Do you
have any idea, Judge, of how old that crock is?"

"Let's not go into that just yet," suggested Mayne.

"As to the fuel," said Melin, "I am willing, as a gesture of good will,
to stick my company's neck out--and mine with it, you may be sure--and
honor a full claim."

"Even though he used about half the fuel getting here?" asked Mayne.

"We'll ignore that. We admit that he is out of fuel, and we want to--"

"You want to give me a moon and take a star," said Voorhis.

"Just a minute!" Mayne held up his hand. "That's the ship and the fuel.
What about the cargo?"

"Why, as to that, Judge, we do not admit that it is lost. It is right
over there, easily accessible. We consider it more the job of the Space
Force to restore rightful possession than it is the responsibility of
the company to reimburse Captain Voorhis for the inflated value he sets
upon it."

"I begin to see," murmured Mayne. "You can't stick each other, so you're
out to slip _me_ the bill."

That aroused a babble of denials. Mayne eventually made himself heard
and demanded to know how the spacer's evaluation differed from Melin's.
Voorhis pulled himself together, glowering at the insurance man.

       *       *       *       *       *

"In the first place," he growled, "I don't want his lousy payment for
fuel. I said I'd take the blame for that, an' I will. On the ship ...
well, maybe she ain't worth two million. Maybe she ain't been for a few
years now--"

Melin made a show of counting on his fingers.

"... But they charged me premiums by that figure an' I say they oughta
pay by that figure."

"But can you prove she's a total loss, captain?" asked Mayne.

Voorhis grimaced and spat upon the ground.

"Try to get near her, Judge! You'll get proof fast enough!"

"Well ... about the cargo, then?"

"_That's_ where he's gouging me!" exploded Voorhis. "The idea of using
the cost as of loading on Rigel IX! Hell, you know the margin of profit
there is in trading on these new planets, twenty to one at least. I
figured to lift off with four million worth of ores, gems, curios, and
whatnot."

"So your point is that the mere transportation of the goods through
space to this planet increased their value. What about that, Mr. Melin?"

Melin shifted uncomfortably on his bench. Mayne would have liked to
change his own position, but feared splinters.

"There is an element of truth in that," admitted Melin. "Still, it would
be rash to expect such a return every time a tramp spaceship lands to
swap with some aboriginal easy marks."

"I suppose," said Mayne, "that our orange-eyed friends speak no Terran?"

"I hope not!" exclaimed Voorhis.

"Well, anyway," Melin said after a startled pause, "how can we be
expected to pay off on hopes? He wants the paper figure for the ship;
but he refuses the paper figure for the cargo."

Mayne shrugged. He turned to Haruhiku.

"If Captain Voorhis and Mr. Melin don't mind, lieutenant, I'd like to
get the chief's view of all this."

"Hah!" grunted Voorhis, clapping both hands to his head.

Melin contented himself with rolling his eyes skyward.

With Haruhiku translating, Mayne began to get acquainted with the
Kappans. The visitor from the neighboring city chose mostly to listen
attentively, but Igrillik, the priest, occasionally leaned over to
whisper sibilantly into Eemakh's recessed ear. Mayne fancied he saw a
resemblance between the two, despite Igrillik's professional
trappings--a long robe of rough material that had been dyed in stripes
and figures of several crude colors, and a tall cap to which were
attached a number of pairs of membraneous wings.

[Illustration]

The first thing that Mayne learned was that the _Gemsbok_ was not a
spaceship; it was a symbol, a sign sent to the Kappans by the great god
Meeg.

"And why did he send it?" asked Mayne.

He had sent it as a sign that he was impatient with his children. They
had vowed him a temple, they had set aside the necessary land, and yet
they had not begun the work.

"Is that why they're all over there, slaving away so feverishly?"

It was indeed the reason. After all, Meeg was the god of the inner moon,
the one that passed so speedily across the sky. If he could guide the
strangers' ship directly to his own plot of ground, he might just as
easily have caused it to land in the center of the village. They had
seen the flames that attended the landing. Could the honored chief from
the stars blame them for heeding the warning?

"I see their point," muttered Mayne resignedly. "Well, maybe we can talk
sense about the cargo. Tell them that there is much in the holds that
would make their lives richer. Tools, gems, fine cloth--give them the
story, lieutenant."

This time, Eemakh conferred with the high priest. It developed that the
cargo was a sacred gift to be used or not as the god Meeg might
subsequently direct. The chief meant no insult. The Kappans realized
that Voorhis and his crew were no demons, but starmen such as had often
brought valuable goods to trade. The Kappans had not sought to harm or
sacrifice them, had they? This was because they were both welcome as
visitors and respected as instruments of Meeg.

Eemakh wished to be fair. The starmen might think they had lost by the
divine mission. Very well--they would be granted land, good land with
forest for hunting and shoreline for fishing. But go near the temple
they should not!

"Could _I_ get in to inspect the cargo?" asked Mayne.

Haruhiku took this up with the Kappans, who softened but did not yield.

"The best I can get, Judge," said the pilot, "is that they wish it were
possible but only those who serve the purposes of Meeg may enter."

"They _would_ look at it that way," sighed Mayne. "Let's leave it at
that, until we can think this over some more. It's time for a lunch
break anyway."

       *       *       *       *       *

He and Haruhiku were flown back to the scout ship. Mayne brooded
silently most of the way. Voorhis thought he was entitled to about six
million credits for ship and cargo; Melin thought half a million for the
ship and fuel would be stretching it. Mayne foresaw that he would have
to knock heads.

The two of them lunched in the pilot's cabin, with hardly room to drop a
spoon. Except for companionship, Mayne would as soon have eaten standing
in the galley.

He considered the vast area of the planet's land surface. Would it be
wiser for the envoy to land elsewhere? What sort of ties were there
between tribes?

"Loose," the pilot told him. "Still, word gets around, with no great
mountain or ocean barriers. They've split into groups, but there is a
lot of contact."

"So if the Space Force should seize the _Gemsbok_, they'll all hear
about it?"

"Within a few weeks, sir. That kind of news has wings on any world. I
think we could take her for you, but we might do some damage. The size
of a scout crew doesn't lend itself to hand-to-hand brawls."

"And if you sling a couple of torpedoes at the Kappan village, you'll
probably wipe it out," said Mayne thoughtfully. "Give the story a month
to spread, and no Terran would be trusted anywhere on the planet. Hm-m-m
... hardly practical!"

"There would also be a chance of damaging the _Gemsbok_."

"Actually, Eric, I'd hardly care if you blew her into orbit, with
Voorhis and Melin riding the fins! But I'm supposed to spread sweetness
and light around here--not scraps and parts of spaceships."

He gnawed moodily upon a knuckle, but saw no way to escape putting up
some government money. Soaking the company would just make _them_ appeal
instead of Voorhis.

"This Meeg," he said to change the subject. "How important is he?"

Haruhiku considered a moment before replying.

"They have a whole mess of gods, like most primitive societies. Meeg is
pretty important. I think he has a special significance to this tribe
... you know, like some ancient Terran cities has a special patron."

"He's the god of that little moon?" Mayne asked.

"Oh, more than that, I think. Really the god of speed, a message bearer
for the other divinities. There always seems to be one in every
primitive mythology."

"Yes," murmured Mayne. "Let's see ... one parallel would be the ancient
Terran Hermes, wouldn't it?"

"Something like that," agreed Haruhiku. "I'm a little vague on the
subject, sir. At least, he isn't one of the bloodthirsty ones."

"That helps," sighed Mayne, "but not enough."

He got a message blank from the pilot. With some labor, he composed a
request to Terran headquarters on Rigel IX for authorization to spend
two million credits on good-will preparations for the Terran-Kappan
treaty conference.

_It almost sounds diplomatic_, he told himself before having the message
sent.

The waiting period that followed was more to be blamed upon headquarters
pussyfooting than upon the subspace transmission. When an answer finally
came, it required a further exchange of messages.

Mayne's last communique might have been boiled down to, "But I _need_
it!"

The last reply granted provisional permission to spend the sum
mentioned; but gleaming between the lines like the sweep of a revolving
beacon was a strong intimation that Mayne had better not hope to charge
the item to "good will." The budget just was not made that way, the hint
concluded.

"It's due to get dark soon, isn't it?" he asked Haruhiku, crumpling the
final message into a side pocket. "I don't believe I'll resume the talks
till morning. Maybe my head will function again by then."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the morning, one of the scout's crew again took the pilot and Mayne
to the meeting by helicopter. Mayne spent part of the trip mulling over
a message Haruhiku had received. The spaceship _Diamond Belt_ could be
expected to arrive in orbit about the planet later the same day, bearing
special envoy J. P. McDonald. The captain, having been informed of
Haruhiku's presence, requested landing advice.

"I told him what I know," said the pilot. "We can give him a beam down,
of course, unless you think we should send him somewhere else."

"Well ... let's see how this goes," said Mayne. "They seem to be waiting
for us down there."

They landed to find Voorhis, Melin, and the native officialdom gathered
at the hut facing the new "temple." After exchanging greetings, they sat
down at the table as they had the day before.

"All right, gentlemen," said Mayne to the two Terrans. "You win. The
government is going to have to put something in the pot. I want to make
it as little as possible, so let us have no more nonsense about the true
value of ship or cargo as they stand."

They looked startled at his tone. Mayne went on before they could
recover.

"The object I have in mind, if it seems at all possible, is to put
Captain Voorhis back in business without costing Mr. Melin his job. Now,
let's put our heads together on that problem and worry about justifying
ourselves later."

The most difficult part was to convince Voorhis to surrender his dream
of fantastic profits; but sometime before Mayne got hoarse, the captain
was made to see that he could not have his cake and eat it, too.

Melin agreed that he might pay the paper value of the _Gemsbok_ if he
could pay likewise for the cargo, in which case he would admit a loss.
After all, a spaceship anchored by a temple might reasonably be termed
unspaceworthy. He would take over the cargo and cut his losses by
allowing the government to buy it at two million.

"You wanna come with me next trip?" invited Voorhis when he heard this.
"If that's how you cut loose, we'll make a fortune!"

"Well, there it is," said Mayne, straightening up to ease his aching
back. He must have been leaning tensely over the table longer than he
had thought. "The captain gets two and a half million, Mr. Melin gets
off with paying only half a million, and you've stuck me for the rest."

"Congratulations, Judge!" said Melin. "You now own a ship and cargo
which I presume you will present to the Kappans."

"How can he?" demanded Voorhis. "They figure they own it already."

"We'll worry about that later," said Mayne.

"_You_ will!" Voorhis guffawed. "I hope you get _some_ credit out of
it."

Haruhiku interrupted to inform Mayne that the Kappans, who had been
interested if bewildered listeners, had invited the Terrans to a small
feast.

"I translated enough to let them understand there would be no attempt to
disturb their temple building," he explained. "They now feel they owe us
hospitality."

"Good, that's something," said Mayne.

"I'll tell you what else will be something," grunted Voorhis. "The
food!"

The assemblage repaired to the Kappan village. The Terrans--though it
took some doing--survived the feast.

Mayne thought it best not to inquire into the nature of the dishes
served. Eemakh was evidently determined to display his village's finest
hospitality, so the Terrans even tried the Kappan beer. Mayne absorbed
enough to get used to it.

_Or did it absorb me?_ he wondered. _Igrillik's beginning to look almost
human!_

Eventually, carts were brought, and they rode bumpily out to admire
progress made on the temple. A fresh breeze helped Mayne to remember
that it was now late afternoon and he had yet to settle one matter with
Eemakh.

When they arrived at the site, crewmen from the _Gemsbok_ saw fit to
take Voorhis in charge and carry him into their hut. Mayne sank down at
the table outside, watching Melin grope to a place beside him. He
noticed that Haruhiku's helicopter pilot handed him a message as soon as
the lieutenant alighted.

"That will be from the _Diamond Belt_," Mayne guessed.

He eyed Melin with some amusement. The insurance man stared very quietly
at the board beneath his elbows. His complexion held a tint of green.
Even Eemakh, plodding ponderously up, lowered himself to a bench with a
sigh. The high priest seemed less affected by the celebration, and Mayne
was proud when Haruhiku walked over with his normal bland alertness.

"They're getting near?" he asked.

"Doing braking circles," reported the pilot. "I sent an order for the
scout to give them a beam. There may still be time to send them
somewhere else--"

"One more try here first," Mayne decided. "Tell Eemakh we want to
straighten out some confusion about Meeg and the cargo."

       *       *       *       *       *

Haruhiku permitted himself a small shrug and translated. Eemakh aroused
himself to a show of interest, while Igrillik turned a suspicious orange
stare upon Mayne. The latter strove to frame in his mind an argument
that would strike them as logical.

"Tell him," he instructed, "that we believe this Meeg was known on
Terra, but by another name. Then describe the mythical Hermes and see
what he says."

Haruhiku began a conversation that lasted several minutes. Igrillik, as
an authority, obviously felt moved to deliver a lengthy opinion. At
last, the pilot turned to Mayne.

"They say we are to be congratulated," he reported.

"Is that all?"

"Well, they do seem a bit more friendly. I was going to try drawing a
picture of that famous statue, with the winged heels and hat, but it
would never match their own conception. Igrillik asks if you claim
belief in Meeg."

"Avoid that," said Mayne. "Now--do they know about ship communications?"

"They are aware that it is done," said Haruhiku. "After all, they just
saw me send a message to the scout over the helicopter screen."

"Good! Point out to them that the _Gemsbok_ also has such equipment."

Haruhiku engaged in another long talk. The Kappans began to show signs
of uneasiness at the end. They remained silent.

"And that therefore," added Mayne, "the Terran who served this machine
should rank in their eyes as a servant of Meeg just as much as Igrillik.
The cargo in the ship was no more his than a message belongs to the
messenger bearing it."

The pilot put this into Kappan, with gestures.

"And furthermore," said Mayne, before it could be suggested that the
owner might be Meeg, "what I have arranged here with Melin and Voorhis
is that the cargo now belongs to all of the Terran people."

Eemakh began to scowl, an impressive contortion on a broad, olive Kappan
visage. Mayne hurried on.

"This being the case, the Kappans _have absolutely no right_ to deny us
the privilege of contributing all these goods to the glory of their
temple!"

"Oh, boy!" grunted Haruhiku. He rattled off the translation.

Mayne watched it hit home. Igrillik leaned over to peer at him
unbelievingly. Eemakh seemed to have difficulty in focusing his glowing
eyes on the Terran.

There were, of course, requests for clarification. Mayne left the
repetitions to the pilot.

In the end, Eemakh arose and embraced him, a startling action that left
Mayne feeling introspectively of his ribs. Igrillik called out something
to the bodyguard attending the chief, causing Mayne to repress a shudder
at the flashing display of big Kappan teeth. He assumed that a smile was
a humanoid constant.

Haruhiku's pilot approached with a new message.

"Now they have to land near here, in half an hour or less," said the
spacer.

"There's just one more thing," Mayne told him. "Voorhis is satisfied,
Melin--look, he's gone to sleep on the table!--is relieved, the Kappans
are friendly, and J. P. McDonald will be happy when he lands. Now I have
to get myself off the hook for two million!"

He turned to the _Gemsbok_ crewmen loitering before the hut.

"Who was the communications man?" he demanded.

A lean, freckled youth with a big nose admitted to the distinction.
Mayne draped an arm about his shoulders and told him he was back in
business.

"Say to them," he instructed Haruhiku, "that if they are to learn how to
use the equipment Meeg has provided for their temple, they must not
delay one minute in taking our friend here into the ship ... uh ... make
that 'temple.' He will show them how a spaceship is called down from the
skies."

Haruhiku gave him a straight-faced glance that was a masked guffaw. He
translated, and orders began to be shouted back and forth among the
Kappans, all the way to the top-most level of the construction. The
lieutenant called his pilot.

"I'll have him flash the scout an order to monitor the _Gemsbok_ and
transfer landing control as soon as they hear her on the air," he
explained.

Mayne nodded. He clutched the arm of the _Gemsbok_ operator, who was
being urged away by Igrillik and a group of warrior escorts.

"Just one thing, son," he shouted over the babble. "Forget about the
ship's call sign. You go on the air calling yourself Kappa Orionis
Central Control."

"Kappa Orionis Central...?" repeated the youth distrustfully.

"You've got it," said Mayne, and shoved him on his way. He turned to
Haruhiku. "The last thing to do is to send the helicopter for some
paint. I don't care if it _isn't_ dry when the _Diamond Belt_ touches
down--I want a sign over the door of this hut!"

"A sign?"

"Make it read 'Spaceport Number 1.' Two million is cheap enough for
buying a spaceport already in operation. There won't be any trouble,
since the Kappans promised the land."

Everyone seemed to be running somewhere. Mayne wiped his face with a
handkerchief and sat down beside Melin, who looked comfortable enough
with his head on the table.

From inside the hut, Mayne could hear snores that must have Voorhis as a
source; the rest of the _Gemsbok_ crewmen had followed the crowd to the
control tower that was also a temple. After a while, Haruhiku returned
and sat down across from Melin.

"Magnificent, Judge!" he said. "We might even get away with it."

"Of course we will," said Mayne, gazing at Melin and listening to
Voorhis. "After all, Hermes was the god of thieves, too!"


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Astounding Science Fiction_ September
    1960. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of Project Gutenberg's A Transmutation of Muddles, by Horace Brown Fyfe

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A TRANSMUTATION OF MUDDLES ***

***** This file should be named 24187.txt or 24187.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/4/1/8/24187/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Bruce Albrecht, Stephen Blundell
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
