The Project Gutenberg EBook of Wizard, by 
Laurence Mark Janifer                         (AKA Larry M. Harris)

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Wizard

Author: Laurence Mark Janifer (AKA Larry M. Harris)

Release Date: January 21, 2008 [EBook #24375]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WIZARD ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Greg Bergquist, Bruce Albrecht and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net





[Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from Astounding Science
Fiction May 1960. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor typographical
errors have been corrected without note.]




WIZARD.

By Larry M. Harris

     _Although the Masquerade itself, as a necessary protection against
     non-telepaths, was not fully formulated until the late years of the
     Seventeenth Century, groups of telepaths-in-hiding existed long
     before that date. Whether such groups were the results of natural
     mutations, or whether they came into being due to some other cause,
     has not yet been fully determined, but that a group did exist in
     the district of Offenburg, in what is now Prussia, we are quite
     sure. The activities of the group appear to have begun,
     approximately, in the year 1594, but it was not until eleven years
     after that date that they achieved a signal triumph, the first and
     perhaps the last of its kind until the dissolution of the
     Masquerade in 2103._

--Excerpt from "A Short History of the Masquerade," by A. Milge, Crystal
704-54-368, Produced 2440.

Jonas came over the hill whistling as if he had not a care in the
world--which was not even approximately true, he reflected happily. The
state of complete and utter quiet was both foreign and slightly
repugnant to him; he was never more pleased than when he had a job in
hand, a job that involved a slight and unavoidable risk.

This time, of course, the risk was more than slight. Why, he thought
happily, it was even possible for him to get killed, and most painfully,
too! With a great deal of pleasure, he stood for a second at the crest
of the hill, his hands on his hips, looking down at the town of Speyer
as it baked in the May afternoon sunlight.



[Illustration]

     _"Behold the Tortoise: He maketh no progress unless he sticketh out
     his neck." But he maketh very little progress unless he pick the
     right time and place to "sticketh out his neck"--which can be quite
     a sticky problem for a man in a medieval culture!_

Illustrated by Schoenherr

Jonas did not, in spite of his pose, look like the typical hero of folk
tale or scribe's tome; he was not seven feet tall, for instance, nor did
he have a handsome, lovesome face with flashing blue eyes, or a
broad-shouldered, narrow-waisted marvel of a figure. He was, instead,
somewhat shorter than the average of men in Europe in 1605 and for some
time thereafter. He had small, almost hidden eyes that seemed to see a
great deal, but failed completely to make a fuss about the fact. And
while his figure was just a trifle dumpy, his face completed the rhyme
by being extraordinarily lumpy. The nose, as a matter of strict truth,
was hard to distinguish from the other contusions, swellings and marks
that covered the head.

Nor, of course, did he carry the sword of a great hero, or a noble.
Jonas had no _von_ to stick on his name, and he had never thought it
worth his while to claim one and accept the tiny risk of disclosure.
After all, a noble was only a man like other men.

And, besides, Jonas knew perfectly well that he had no need of a sword.

His adventures, too, were a little out of the common run of tales. Jonas
had, he thought regretfully, few duels to look forward to, and he had
even fewer to look back on. And, as a maid is won by face, figure and
daring, and a wife by riches, position or prospects, there was a notable
paucity of lissome ladies in Jonas' career.

All in all, he thought sadly, he was not a _usual_ hero.

But he refused to let the thought spoil his enjoyment. After all, he was
a hero, though of his own unique kind; there was no denying that. And,
in his own way, he had his reward. He took one hand off his hip to
scratch at the top of his head, wondering briefly if he had managed to
pick up lice in the last town he had visited, and he took another look
at the city.

Speyer seemed a lot better, at first glance, than some of the other
places Jonas had visited. For one thing, it had a full town hall,
built--no less--of honest stone, and probably a relict of the Roman
times. There was the parish church, of course, a good solid wooden
structure, and a collection of houses strung along the dirt paths of the
town. The houses of the rich were, naturally, wooden; the poor built of
baked mud. There were a great many baked-mud structures, and only one
wooden one, besides the church, that Jonas could see.

The paths were winding, but comparatively free from slop. That was
pleasing, he told himself. And the buildings themselves, wood, mud and
stone, clustered in the valley below him as if they were afraid, and
needed each other's protection.

Which, in a way, they did. Jonas reflected on that a trifle grimly,
thinking of the Holy Inquisition with its hierarchy of priests and lay
folk, busily working in Speyer just as it worked in every other town
throughout Offenburg, and throughout the civilized world.

Ordinarily, he would not have given it a thought, beyond a passing sigh
for the ways of the world; he had other business. But now--

He grinned to himself, and the grin turned to a laugh as he started down
the hill. The grislier methods of the Inquisitorial process were
well-known to him by reputation, and soon he might be testing them out
for himself. There was absolutely no way to be sure.

That thought pleased him greatly; after all, he told himself, there was
nothing like a little danger to spice the boring business of living. By
the time he reached the bottom of the hill, he was whistling loudly.

       *       *       *       *       *

He stopped at the first house, a mud construction with a
badly-carpentered wooden door and a single bare window that looked out
on the street. It smelled, but Jonas went up to the door bravely and
knocked.

There was no answer. He went on whistling "_Fortuna plango vulnera_"
under his breath, and after a time he knocked again.

This time he heard movement inside the house, and nodded to himself in a
satisfied fashion. But almost a minute passed before the head of an old
woman showed itself at the window. She was really extraordinarily ugly,
he thought. She wore a bonnet that did nothing whatever to enhance her
doubtful, wrinkled charms, or to conceal them; and besides, it was
dirty.

"Nobody's here," she said in the voice of a very venomous toad. "Go
away."

Jonas smiled at her. It was an effort. "Madam--" he began politely.

"Nobody's home," she repeated, drawing slightly back from the window.
"You go away, now."

"Ah," Jonas said pleasantly. "But you're home, aren't you?"

The old woman frowned at him suspiciously. "Now," she said vaguely.
"Well."

"This _is_ your house?" he said. "The house where you live?"

"Never saw you before," the old woman said.

"That's right," Jonas said equably.

"You come to turn me out?" she demanded. Her eyebrows--which were almost
as big and black as her ancient mustache--came down over glittering
little eyes. "I hold this house free and proper," she said in a
determined roar, "and nobody can take it from me. It belongs to me, and
to my children, and to their children, and to the children of those
children--"

The catalogue seemed likely to go on forever. "Exactly," Jonas said
hastily.

"Well, then," the old woman said, and started to draw back.

Jonas gestured lazily with one hand. "Wait," he said. "I am not going to
take your house away from you, madam. I am only here to ask you a
question."

"Question?" she said. "You come from Herr Knupf? I'm an old woman but I
do no wrong, and there is no one can accuse me of heresy. I am in church
every week, and more than once; I keep peace with my neighbors and
there's none can say a mystery about me--"

The woman, Jonas thought, was full to the eyebrows with words. Probably,
he told himself, trying to be fair, she didn't have anyone to talk to,
until a stranger came along.

He sighed briefly. "I do not come from the Inquisitor," he said
truthfully, "nor is my question one that should cause you alarm."

The old woman pondered for a minute. She leaned her elbows on the window
sill, getting them muddy. But that, Jonas thought, didn't seem to matter
to this creature, apparently.

"Ask," she said at last.

Jonas put on his most pleasant expression. "Madam," he said, "I wish to
know if there be any family in this town to give room to a
wayfarer--understanding, of course, that the wayfarer would insist on
paying. Paying well," he added.

The old woman blinked. "You looking for an inn?" she said. "An inn in
this town?" The idea appeared to strike her as the very height of
idiocy. She covered her face with her hands and shook. After a second
Jonas discovered that she was laughing. He waited patiently until the
fit had left her.

"Not an inn," he said. "There is no inn here, I know. But a family
willing to take in a stranger--"

"Strangers are seldom here," she said. "Herr Knupf watches his flock
with zeal."

Which meant, Jonas reflected, that he was in a fair way to get himself
burned as a heretic unless he watched his step carefully. "Herr Knupf's
fame has reached my own country, far away," he said with some truth.
"Nevertheless, a family which--"

"Wait," she said. "You have said that you will pay well. Yet you do not
appear rich."

Jonas understood. Fishing in his sewn pocket, he withdrew a single,
shiny coin. "I also wish," he said smoothly, "to pay for any help I may
receive--such as the answering of an innocent question, a question in
which the respected Inquisitor Knupf can have no interest whatever."

The old woman's eyes went to the coin and stayed there. "Well," she
said. "It is said that the family called Scharpe has a house too large
for them, now that the elder son is gone; there is only the man, his
wife and a daughter. It is said that the man is in need of money; he
would accept payment, were it generous, in return for sharing room in
his house."

"I would be most grateful," Jonas murmured. He passed the coin over; the
old woman's hand snatched it and closed on it. "Where might I find this
family?" he said.

"It is now late in the afternoon," the old woman said. "Perhaps they are
at home. You will see a path which takes you to the left; follow it
until you reach the last house. Knock at the door."

"I shall," Jonas said, "and many thanks."

The old woman, still clutching her coin, disappeared from the window as
if someone had yanked her back. Jonas turned with relief and got back on
the path, but it stank quite as badly as the house had.

He endured the stench--heroically.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scharpe proved to be a barrel-shaped man who was unaccountably
cheerless, as if the inside structure had been carefully removed, and
then replaced by sawdust, Jonas thought. Even the offer of seven kroner
for a single week's stay failed to produce the delirious joy Jonas had
expected.

"The money is needed," Scharpe said in a dour, bass voice, staring off
past Jonas' left ear at the darkening sky. "And for the money, you will
be welcome. I must take your word that you are not dangerous; I can only
pray that you do not betray that trust."

It was far from a warm welcome, but Jonas was satisfied with it. "I
shall work to do you good," he said, "and not evil."

"Stranger," Scharpe said, "work for your own good; do nothing for me.
This is an accursed family; there is no good to be done to me, or my
wife or child."

Jonas tried to look reassuring. He thought of several things to say
about the sunny side of life, and decided on none or them. "My
sympathy--" he began.

"Your sympathy may endanger you," Scharpe said. "My son is gone; I pray
that there is an end to it."

Jonas peered once into the mind of the man, and recoiled violently; but
he had enough, in that one glimpse, to tell him the reason for Scharpe's
misery. And it was quite reason enough, he thought.

"Herr Knupf--"

"We do not mention that name," Scharpe said. "My wife has resigned
herself to what has happened; I am not so wise."

"I promise you," Jonas said earnestly, "that you will be in no danger
from me. No, more: that I will help you out of your difficulties, and
ensure your peace."

"Then you are an angel from Heaven," Scharpe said bitterly. "There is no
other help, while the Inquisitor remains and our sons become suspect to
his rages."

Jonas shook his head. "There is help," he said, "and you will find it.
Your son is gone; accused, questioned, confessed and burnt. But there
will be no more."

Scharpe looked at him for a long time. "Come with me," he said at last,
and led the way into his mud house. Inside, there was only one large
room, but it seemed spacious enough for four. Three pallets lay against
the far right wall, a single one against the left. Scharpe went to the
back of the house, near the single bed. "This will be yours," he said,
"while you are with us. It is poor but it is all we can offer."

"I am honored," Jonas said.

"Here we are alone," Scharpe went on, his voice lowering. "My wife and
daughter have gone to visit a neighbor, for they have not yet closed us
off entirely from all human contact."

[Illustration]

He grimaced. Jonas peered into the mind again, very gently, but the mad
roiling of pain and memory there was too strong for him, and he
returned.

"If you have anything to say to me," Scharpe said, "tell me now. No one
can hear us, not Herr Knupf himself."

"To say to you?"

"Regarding your plan," Scharpe said. "Surely you have a plan. And if I
may play any part in it--"

Jonas blinked. "Plan?" he said.

"Of course," Scharpe said. "You speak of an end to troubles, an end to
the Inquisition and the burnings, an end to the question. And so you
must have a plan for ridding us of Herr Knupf; one which you will tell
me."

Jonas shook his head. "I have no plan," he said.

"It means danger," Scharpe pressed him. "But I do not mind danger, in
such a cause. I am not vengeful, but my son was no wizard. Yet the
Inquisitor took him and had a confession from him; you know well the
worth of such confessions. And soon there will be others, for when the
curse strikes a family it does not stop with one member." He tightened
his lips. "It is not for myself I am afraid," he said.

Jonas nodded. "Were there such a plan," he said, "be assured I would
tell you."

"But--"

"There is none," Jonas said. "Herr Knupf shall remain, for all that I
can do, while the earth remains."

Scharpe opened his mouth, shut it again, and then shrugged. "I see," he
said at last. "You do not trust me. Perhaps you are wise. I might talk
foolishly; I am an old man; older, in this last month, than in all my
other years."

"Believe me," Jonas began. "I--"

"Let it be," Scharpe said quietly. "I believe you. If that is what you
want, I believe you." He shrugged again, moving out toward the door of
the hut. "And, in any case," he said, "the money is needed. For there
are fines to pay, and costs of the Inquisition."

"I understand," Jonas said helplessly.

Scharpe turned and looked him full in the face. In the big man's eyes,
bitterness and hopelessness glittered. "I am sure you do," he said, and
turned again toward the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

The others he met only briefly. Frau Scharpe was a little woman with the
face of a walnut, who looked as if she had never really been cheerful.
Her son's death, he saw when he looked into her mind, had not come as a
surprise to her; it was one more unhappy event, in a lifetime in which
she had expected nothing else. Unhappiness, she told herself, was her
portion in this life; in the Life Above, things would be different.

Jonas had met the type before, and was uninterested in going further.
But Ilse Scharpe was something else entirely. She did not say a word to
him, coming into the house that evening, a pace behind her mother, like
an obedient slave. She was about seventeen, and her mind was as fresh
and clean and pretty as her face and figure. Jonas started musing on
Heroes again, but he never had the chance to make a move toward her. She
had a very nice smile, and from memories in the others' minds he could
hear her voice, low and quiet and entirely satisfactory.

Jonas sighed. The job, he told himself sternly, came first. And
afterward--

Though, come to think of it, there wouldn't be an afterward.

The evening meal was simple. There was a single dish of meat and some
sort of beans; after it had been eaten, and the darkness outside grew to
full night, it was time to retire. Jonas went over to his pallet,
removed his jerkin and shoes, and lay down. He heard the others readying
themselves for sleep, but he did not look into their minds. Soon they
were asleep and breathing heavily.

But Jonas stayed awake for a while.

"It's really too bad we can't work this sort of thing at a distance,"
Claerten's voice said suddenly. "But then, none of us has ever met the
man, and you can't read a mind if you haven't had some physical contact
with the man who owns it."

"It is too bad," Jonas agreed politely. Five hundred miles away Claerten
chuckled, and the linkage of minds transmitted the amusement to Jonas.

"You don't think so, at any rate," the director said. "You're having
adventures--and a fine time. It's the sort of thing you like, after
all."

Jonas shrugged mentally. "I suppose so," he said. "I like to work on my
own, do my own job--"

"And it's got you into trouble before," Claerten said. "But you can't
afford any mistakes this time."

"I know the risk perfectly well," Jonas thought back.

Claerten's thought carried a wry echo. "You know the risk to yourself,"
he told Jonas, "and you've accepted that. You rather like it, as a
matter of fact. But you haven't thought of the risk to the rest of
us--and to the town you're in."

Jonas sent a thought of uncertainty: "What?"

Claerten transmitted the entire picture in one sudden blow: the chance
that Jonas would not be killed immediately, but would be discovered; the
chance that the Inquisitor would get from him the secret of the
Brotherhood--

"That's impossible," Jonas said.

Claerten sounded resigned. "Nothing's impossible," he said. "And if the
secret is let out--why, the Brotherhood is finished. Finished before
it's barely started. Because you can read a man's mind doesn't mean you
can defeat him, Jonas."

"But you know what he's going to do--"

"And if he's got you in a wooden house and he's going to burn it down,
what good does your knowledge do you?"

"But you can transmit false thoughts--"

"And confuse him," Claerten said. "Fine. Fine. If you've ever met the
man before. And suppose you haven't? Then you can't transmit a thing to
him; you're trapped in the house, remember, and the fire's started. What
good's your telepathy?"

"But--"

"It's a sense," Claerten said. "Like any other sense. But it isn't magic
any more than your eyes are magic. They're ... given by God, if you
like; they grow, they develop. So the ability to read minds, to transmit
thought is given by God. No one knows why or how. Fifteen of us have
developed it; fifteen who are members of the Brotherhood. But there are
others--"

"Of course," Jonas thought impatiently. "I know all that."

"You know a great deal," Claerten said, "which I sometimes find it
necessary to bring to your attention."

"I've done all right," Jonas thought sullenly.

Claerten agreed. "Of course you have," he thought, "but you're not the
most careful of men; and great care is needed. The Brotherhood must
grow. This new sense is of great value; perhaps we can learn to teach it
to others in time, though we have had little success with that. But at
the least we can maintain our numbers, pass the gift on to our
children--"

"If it is possible," Jonas said.

"We must try," Claerten said. "And your job is enormously important."

"I know that," Jonas thought wearily.

"You have accomplished the first step," Claerten said. "Do nothing
rash."

"Of course not."

"You will not accept help--"

"I will not," Jonas thought.

"Very well, then," Claerten thought. There was the ghost of another
idea; Jonas caught it.

"I know perfectly well that you wouldn't have sent me if there were any
other available member," he thought. "There is no need to remind me."

"I'm sorry," Claerten thought. He radiated caution, worry, patience;
Jonas turned in the bed and cut off from the director with a grunt. He
was tired; long-distance linkages were a drain on the body's energy,
even when the person involved was easy to visualize. But Claerten had
insisted on intermittent contact.

If there were such a thing as total contact, constant contact over a
period of days, Jonas thought, Claerten would use me for a puppet, a
veritable Punch among men; he would override me and take me over the way
a traveling entertainer rules his jointed dolls.

And that would be a fine thing for a hero, wouldn't it?

He grimaced in the darkness. Constant contact was simply impossible; any
reaching out used energy, and linking up for a long period simply burned
the body up like a long starvation; it was as bad as a penance.

Jonas was thankful for that.

And for the rest--well, he thought resignedly, what was a hero without a
quest? And what was a quest without someone to set it?

But that the someone had to be Claerten, with his caution and his
old-woman worry--

Jonas sighed and set about the business of falling asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

The days passed slowly, with great boredom. Jonas made contact twice
with Claerten, who told him over and over to wait, to do nothing: "The
next move is coming soon; do nothing to hurry it. You can only upset the
natural course of events."

"Which is unwise," Jonas thought bitterly, "and risky, and very probably
impious as well."

"As for the piety," Claerten thought, "I leave that to the priests and
the women. But wisdom and caution are my task, Jonas, as they must be
yours."

"I--"

"You are a hero, out on an adventure," Claerten thought witheringly.
"But set your course with sense, travel it with caution; you will the
more certainly arrive."

"Philosophy for a dull plodder," Jonas thought.

"Philosophy for one of the Brotherhood," Claerten thought back. "We are
tiny as yet; we have no force. You can add to that force, add greatly;
but you must be wise."

"I must be slow, you mean."

"I mean what I have told you," Claerten thought. "And--one more thing,
Jonas."

"Yes?"

"The daughter," Claerten thought. "I have seen her in your mind. Ignore
the wench. Is she worth what your task is worth?"

"I never--"

"Then my caution is unnecessary," Claerten thought. "But, in the
unlikely case that she might tempt you to folly--remember it."

Jonas, who disliked irony, sighed and cut off.

That was the third night. During the days he had done the things he had
planned; he did no work with the Scharpes, but let them find him, when
they returned to the hut of an evening, reciting strange words. Once he
built a small outdoor fire and walked around it, widdershins, for
several minutes. Then he put the fire out and went inside. He wasn't
sure whether or not anyone was watching him, that time.

But sooner or later it had to happen.

And it happened, as Jonas had suspected it would, through the wife. Mrs.
Scharpe came back to the hut early one day, threw a frightened glance at
Jonas sitting in a corner doing nothing at all, and left.

He hardly needed to see into her mind to know where she was going.

And twenty minutes later two men came to the hut. They stood in the
opened doorway, Mrs. Scharpe behind them twittering like an ancient
bird, and Jonas watched them boredly. They were giants, for this part of
the world, almost six feet tall, with great hands and jaws. One had
black, coarse hair on his head and a stubble about his face; the other
was bald as an egg.

"That's him," Mrs. Scharpe said--just a trifle hesitantly. "He's the
one. He came to stay with us and we didn't know--"

The man with black hair said: "Uh. Gur."

"Herr Knupf said take him back," the bald one added.

"Herr Knupf?" Jonas said, entering the conversation with a light,
pleasant tone.

"He's the ... the--" Mrs. Scharpe tried to get the word out, and then
pushed by the two men and came into the hut. "I didn't want to but
there's something strange, and we can't afford any suspicion, and--"

Jonas realized slowly that she was crying as she looked at him. "It's
all right," he said uncomfortably.

"You're--"

"I'll be perfectly all right," Jonas said. He stood up. "This Herr
Knupf," he said. "He wants to see me?"

"He said bring you along," the bald man told him.

The black-haired man nodded very slowly. "Gur," he said.

Jonas sighed and went forward to meet the two big men, leaving Mrs.
Scharpe sobbing in the background. The poor woman felt terrible, he
knew; but there was nothing he could do about that. "Then let us go,"
he said, and marched off. Feeling that one more effect wouldn't hurt,
he led the way to the Town Hall; let them figure out how he had known
just where to go, he thought.

Their minds were very, very boring, and quite blank. Herr Knupf, Jonas
reflected, might be a definite relief.

       *       *       *       *       *

First there was the cell, which was in the basement of the Town Hall. It
was damp and the air was not too good, but there were compensations.
Rats, for instance. Jonas told himself, after the first couple of hours,
that he simply wouldn't have known what to do without the rats. Trying
to trap and kill them, with no weapons beyond his bare hands--even an
eating knife he had carried in his jerkin had been taken away, leaving
him to the uncomfortable reflection that he was going to have to dine
with his fingers--was a pastime that occupied him for several hours on
the first day.

On the second day, the rats began to bore him. By that evening, they
were annoying him, and when the third day dawned bright and warm--as
near as he could tell from the tiny slip of window at the top of his
cell--Jonas was telling himself that any move at all was a move in the
right direction.

He set up a shout for one of the guards. The bald one had brought his
meals every day, but the black-haired one was the man who checked his
cell at night. For once, Jonas thought, he was lucky; the bald man
appeared, after some fifteen minutes of screaming and cursing. Jonas was
not at all sure whether the black-haired man understood language: there
was little trace of it in his mind, and virtually nothing that might be
called intelligence. With the bald man, at least, he could communicate.

"What's wanted?" the guard said sourly, staring through the bars.

Jonas smiled softly. "You know why I'm here, don't you?" he said in a
voice as close to silky as he could make it.

"You?" the bald man said. "You're here. In a cell."

"That's right," Jonas said patiently. He rubbed at his face. "Do you
know why I was put here?"

"You--cast spells. You make things happen."

"That's right," Jonas said, smiling again. "I'm a wizard. A warlock.
That's what they say, isn't it?"

"You--make things happen," the bald man said.

But he had the basic idea; Jonas checked that in his mind. "Very well,"
he said. "Now, I wish to see Herr Knupf."

"The Inquisitor calls you when he wants you," the bald man said.

"Now," Jonas said.

"When he wants--"

"If I am a wizard," Jonas said, "I have powers. Strange powers. I could
make you--" He reflected for a minute. "I could make you into a beetle,
and squash you underfoot. As a matter of fact, I think I will." He gazed
reflectively at the bald man, who gulped and turned a little pale.

"You ... you are in a cell," he said at last. "Locked up."

"Do you think that will stop me?" Jonas said. He came to the barred
door, still smiling.

"You would not dare--"

"Why not?" Jonas asked. "What have I got to lose?"

He raised one hand, clawing the fingers slightly. He took a deep breath,
as if he were about to spit out an incantation. His eyes glittered. The
smile broadened.

A long second passed.

"I will tell the Inquisitor you wish to see him," the bald guard said.

Jonas relaxed and stepped back. "I shall be most grateful," he said
formally. The guard turned and started to walk away. Five paces down the
corridor, the walk turned into a run. Jonas watched him go, and then sat
down on his louse-infested cot to await developments.

The minutes ticked by endlessly. He thought of trying to reach Claerten,
but decided, not entirely with regret, that the contact would use up too
much energy. And he needed all the energy he could conserve now. The
second step had been taken--the fact that he sat in a cell in prison was
proof of that.

[Illustration]

The third step--the all-important final step--was about to begin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Georg Knupf was a tall man with skin the color and apparent texture of
good leather. He had a face like an eagle, and his eyes were ice-blue.
He moved his thin, strong hands gently back and forth on the table that
held his papers, inkstand and pen, and said in a voice like audible
sandpaper: "You wanted to see me."

"True," Jonas said pleasantly. Knupf was sitting behind the table. Jonas
had not been asked to sit; he remained standing, and he was reasonably
sure that his feet were going to hurt in a minute. He tried not to let
the thought disturb him.

The man's mind was like his office in the Town Hall: sparsely furnished,
almost austere, but with all the necessaries laid out for easy access.
Underneath the strength and iron of the mind Jonas caught the spark
glowing, and nearly smiled. In spite of the reports, in spite of logic,
there had been a chance the Brotherhood had guessed wrongly about this
man.

[Illustration]

Now that chance was gone, and the Brotherhood was right again.

"Not many ask to see me," Knupf said in the same voice. He went on
looking at his hands. There was bitterness in his mind, bitterness that
had changed to hate. "Their pleas tend to be exactly the opposite."

"I did not plead," Jonas pointed out. "It was necessary that I come to
see you."

The question was, he told himself, exactly what were the Inquisitor's
real beliefs? His public professions were well-known; Jonas searched and
found the answer. Knupf was an honest man.

That, of course, made matters simpler.

"Necessary?" Knupf said, looking up for the first time. His gaze stabbed
like a sword. He was uneasy, Jonas knew; with another mind probing his,
he could not help but be uneasy. But he could not find a cause; it would
never occur to him. And he controlled his feelings superbly.

"You believe that I am a wizard," Jonas said.

Knupf waited a bare second, and then nodded.

"I can do many things," Jonas went on. "It was necessary that I bring
these to your attention--and prove to you that they are not wizardry, or
magic."

"Many have told me," Knupf muttered, "that their feats were natural. It
is a common defense."

"So I have heard," Jonas said easily. "But I shall prove what I say."

"I am under no compulsion to listen to you," Knupf said after a pause.

Jonas shrugged. His feet _were_ beginning to hurt, he realized; he
sighed briefly, but there was no time or attention to spare for them. "I
could only see you by having myself accused of witchcraft," he said. "In
that way, you would be forced to listen to me. You may listen now, or
later at a full hearing of the Inquisitor's Court."

"And I am to take my choice?" Knupf said. He smiled briefly; his face
remained cold. The strong hands moved on the tabletop.

"It is a matter of indifference to me," Jonas said. "But the wait
becomes boring, after a time."

Knupf's eyebrows went up. "Boring is--hardly the word others would use."

"I am not like others," Jonas said. He wished for Claerten suddenly, but
there was no way to reach him safely. He had to make his move alone.

Well, he told himself, that was what he had wanted.

"I can tell you what is in your mind," he said.

The words hung in the air of the room for a long time. At last Knupf
nodded. "The Devil grants to many his power of seeing the minds of men,"
he said quietly.

"This is not Devil's work--as I shall prove," Jonas said. He shifted his
feet. "But let me establish one point at a time, in the most scholastic
manner; if you will permit."

"I permit," Knupf said. There was interest in his mind, overlaid with
skepticism, of course, but interest all the same. That, Jonas thought,
was a better sign than he had dared to hope for.

"Very well," he said. "Think of a word. Think of any single word. I
shall tell it to you."

"As any wizard might do, who had the help of his lord the Devil," Knupf
muttered. "Do you expect this to prove--"

"One thing at a time," Jonas said.

Knupf nodded. A second passed.

Jonas licked his lips. The possibilities paraded before him; on one
hand, success. On the other there was the torture and death of the
Inquisition. Jonas took a deep breath; there was no way to back out now.
Heroism looked a little empty, though.

He closed his eyes. "Cabbages," he said.

Knupf neither applauded, nor looked surprised. "As I have said," he
murmured, "that which the Devil can grant--" He paused and looked down
at his hands. "Am I to take this as a confession?" he said. "Do you wish
to hurry your own death?"

"I am no wizard," Jonas said.

"A stranger," Knupf said, "who enters a small city, is seen at
mysterious undertakings, plucks words out of the center of a man's mind
 ... why, the picture is a classic one. Del Rio himself, Holzinger or any
of the others could not describe a better."

"Yet all this was done to draw your attention, to fix it on what I have
to tell you," Jonas said, shifting his feet again. "I am no wizard, but
a man who may do certain things. And here is my proof: you may do the
same yourself."

The silence was a long one, and at the end of it Knupf rose. He walked
to the door of the room and opened it, and the bald-headed guard came
in. "He has tried to tempt me to pact with Satan," the Inquisitor said.

"But--"

"Take him away."

       *       *       *       *       *

Some day, Jonas thought, back in his cell, there would be a method of
controlling minds that did not require the willing co-operation of the
two parties. Some day the man who reads minds would be more than a
passive onlooker.

But the talent was new; it needed practice, it needed training.

The cell grew dark as night came, and the dampness seemed to increase.
Jonas heard squeaking and thought of the rats, but he couldn't even
summon up enough energy to try for them. He sat crosslegged in a corner
of the cell and closed his eyes.

He sighed once, deeply. This was what a hero came to, he told himself.
This was the end of heroics and playing a lone hand. Why, if he had it
to do over again, he would--

"You would do exactly the same thing," Claerten's voice said.

Jonas grinned suddenly, and sat straighter. "I should have known you'd
be getting into contact sooner or later," he thought.

"I try to keep track of all our men," Claerten thought. "In a case like
yours, I try harder."

"My foolishness," Jonas thought, "sometimes works to my benefit."

Claerten's thought was wry. "If you hadn't got impatient and tried to
hurry things," his voice said in Jonas' mind, "you wouldn't be back in
your cell now. There is a time and a place for your disclosure--"

"Another day in here would have driven me out of my wits," Jonas
thought.

"Better out of your wits than dead," Claerten thought.

Jonas sighed.

"However," Claerten went on, "there is still a way out for you. I have
read the situation in your mind, and your next move will have to be
rather more spectacular than usual."

"So long as it works," Jonas said, "I will be satisfied."

"It will work," Claerten said. "At least--I think it will."

Another day dragged by. Jonas put in his time alternately going over the
new plan and feeling more frightened than he had ever believed possible.
Claerten reached him once, but the contact was weak and fleeting; the
director hadn't enough strength to reach him again, at least not for a
day or so. Jonas was exactly where he'd wanted to be: on his own.

He hated the idea.

Time passed, somehow. When morning dawned, Jonas awoke to find the door
of his cell being unlocked. The bald man and the black-haired man were
both there. He looked up at them with distaste.

Then he saw what was in their minds, and the distaste changed to fear.

"You have confessed," the bald one said. "It is necessary that you
ratify your confession. Come with us."

Jonas knew what that meant: ratification of a free confession took place
under torture. He wiped his face with one hand, but he hardly thought of
escaping.

He had to go through with the plan.

The two guards came into the cell and gripped his arms. Jonas allowed
himself to be carried out into the corridor, and down it to a great
wooden door. The guards opened it, and dragged him through.

The torture chamber was brightly lit, with torches in brackets along the
walls that gave off, by a small fraction, more light than smoke. In one
corner the rack itself stood, and there were other tools of the trade
scattered around the room.

Jonas found that he was sweating.

The guards brought him to the center of the room. Knupf was standing
near him, a perfectly blank expression on his face. His voice was the
same rough rasp, but it seemed almost mechanical.

"You have confessed to me," he said, "your heresy. Now, you will be made
to ratify your confession. That done, your penalty will be exacted."

And the penalty, of course, would be death--death at the stake.

He forced himself to remain calm. Now was the time for his play. He took
a deep breath and felt the strength in him gather to a single point and
flow outward. The two men suddenly seemed to stagger; there was a second
of confusion and they had let him go. He stood alone in the room. He
turned and walked to the door, but he did not open it. Instead, he
leaned against it.

He forced his voice into the patterns of calmness and ease. "Your men
cannot touch me," he said.

"Wizard--"

"No," Jonas said. The confusion he was broadcasting kept the men from
doing anything that required even a simple plan, but he couldn't keep it
up for long. "A man like yourself, a man with a particular talent, given
by God."

"The name of God--"

"I can say that name," Jonas told the Inquisitor. "No wizard may say
it."

"It is a trick," Knupf said.

Jonas shook his head. "Not at all. I will ask you to do nothing against
the Faith; I will merely ask you to test for yourself what I say."

"You are a heretic," Knupf said stubbornly. "I can not--"

"You can pray," Jonas said.

Knupf blinked. "Pray?" he said.

"Meditate on a prayer," Jonas said. "Keep your mind open, keep yourself
ready for the gift of God. It will descend on you."

Knupf shook his head. "It is a trick--" he began.

"A trick?" Jonas said. "With the prayers of God and His Church?"

And that was the unanswerable question. For no wizard could use the name
of God, no wizard could pray. So the Inquisition said; so Knupf said, so
Knupf had to say, and so he had to believe.

Slowly, his mind opened and became receptive. The prayer hung in the air
of the smoky room. Jonas slipped in--

"Now," he said quietly.

His control slipped. The two guards came toward him, overpowered and
held him in a brief second--

"Wait," the Inquisitor said heavily. "Wait. Release him."

       *       *       *       *       *

"And so," Claerten thought, "the job was accomplished."

"Naturally," Jonas thought.

Claerten's thought had an overtone of weariness. "There is no need to be
smug," he told Jonas. "After all, you did not do the job yourself."

"Unimportant," Jonas thought. "The man is convinced; he can be trained
further and join the Brotherhood."

"It will take time," Claerten said. "A few years, perhaps. But in the
meantime there will be no trials in Speyer."

"No trials?" Jonas thought. "But ... oh. I see."

"Of course," Claerten thought. "Any man who considers himself a wizard
will have his mind seen by the Inquisitor. And since there are no
wizards--at least, none we have discovered--"

"The trials will cease," Jonas finished.

"And the Brotherhood has gained a new member," Claerten said. "A member
with influence and power. It is an important step forward, Jonas."

"Of course," Jonas thought disinterestedly.

"Yet you seem bored by the matter," Claerten thought, puzzled. "I don't
see ... oh. I see the woman in your mind. The daughter. And--"

"Now, stop it," Jonas thought. "Stop it. Cut off. After all," he
finished, "there are times when even a hero wants a little privacy."


Postscript:

_In 1605-1606 (in Offenburg) there were no executions...._

--H. C. Lea, "Materials Toward a History of Witchcraft," Vol. III, p.
1148.


THE END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Wizard, by 
Laurence Mark Janifer  (AKA Larry M. Harris)

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WIZARD ***

***** This file should be named 24375.txt or 24375.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/4/3/7/24375/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Greg Bergquist, Bruce Albrecht and
the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
