The Project Gutenberg EBook of Faithfully Yours, by Lou Tabakow

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Faithfully Yours

Author: Lou Tabakow

Release Date: February 10, 2008 [EBook #24566]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FAITHFULLY YOURS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, LN Yaddanapudi and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









FAITHFULLY YOURS

BY LOU TABAKOW

Illustrated by Emsh

  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                     Transcriber's Note                       |
  |                                                              |
  | This etext was produced from Astounding Science Fiction      |
  | December 1955. Extensive research did not uncover any        |
  | evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was     |
  | renewed.                                                     |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+

     _If it's too impossibly difficult to track down and recapture an
     escaped criminal ... there's a worse thing one might do...._


[Illustration]

JULY 18, 1949 A.D.

_The fugitive lay face down in the fetid undergrowth, drawing in
spasmodic lungfuls of air through cracked and swollen lips. Long before,
his blue workshirt had been ripped to ribbons and his exposed chest
showed a spiderwork of scratches, where branches and brambles had sought
to restrain him in his frenzied flight. Across his back from shoulder to
shoulder ran a deeper cut around which the caked blood attested to the
needle-sharp viciousness of a thorn bush a mile to the north. With each
tortured breath he winced, as drops of sweat ran down, following the
spiderwork network and burning like acid. Incessantly he rubbed his
bruised torso with mud-caked palms to dislodge the gnats and mosquitoes
that clung to him, gorging shamelessly._

_To the east he could see the lights of Fort Mudge where the railroad
cut through on its way to Jacksonville. He had planned to ride the
freight into Jacksonville but by now they were stopping every train and
searching along every foot of the railroad right of way. In the distance
he heard the eerie keen of a train whistle, and visualized the scene as
it was flagged down and searched from engine to caboose._

_Directly before him loomed the forbidding northern boundary of the
Okefenokee Swamp. Unconsciously he strained his ears, then shuddered at
the night noises that issued from the noisome wilderness. A frenzied
threshing, then a splash, then ... silence. What drama of life and death
was being played out in that strange other-world of perpetual shadows?_

_In sudden panic he jerked erect and cupped his palm round his ear. Far
off; muted by distance, but still unmistakable; he heard the baying of
bloodhounds. Then this was the end. A sob broke from his throat. What
was he, an animal; to be hunted down as a sport? Tears of self-pity
welled to his eyes as he thought back to a party and a girl and laughter
and cleanliness and the scent of magnolias, like a heady wine. But that
was so long ago--so long ago--and now.... He looked down at his
sweating, lacerated body; his blistered calloused palms; the black
broken nails; the cheap workshoes with hemp laces; the shapeless gray
cotton trousers, now wet to the knees._

_He pulled back his shoulders and resolutely faced west toward the
river, but stopped short in horror as he heard the sudden cacophony of
barks, yelps and howls of a pack of bloodhounds that senses the
beginning of the end. He turned in panic. They couldn't be over half a
mile away. In a panic of indecision he turned first east then west, then
facing due south he hesitated a moment to take one last look at the
clear open skies, and with a muffled prayer plunged into the brooding
depths of the Okefenokee._

       *       *       *       *       *

JUNE 13, 427th Year GALACTIC ERA

The building still hummed and vibrated with the dying echoes of the
alarm siren as the biophysicist hurried down the corridor, and without
breaking stride, pushed open the door to the Director's office.

The Director shuffled the papers before him and sighed heavily. His
chair creaked protestingly as he shifted his bulk and looked up.

"Well?"

"He got away clean," said the biophysicist.

"Any fix on the direction?"

"None at all, sir. And he's got at least a two hours' start. That takes
in a pretty big area of space."

"Hm-m-m! Well there's just a bare chance. That experimental cruiser is
the fastest thing in space and it's equipped with the latest
ethero-radar. If we get started right away, we just might--"

"That's just it," interrupted the biophysicist. "That's the ship he got
away in."

The Director jumped angrily to his feet. "How did that happen? How can I
explain to the board?"

"I'm sorry, sir. He was just too--"

"_You're_ sorry?" He slumped back in his chair and drummed the desk top
with his fingernails, worrying his lower lip with his teeth. He exhaled
loudly and leaned forward. "Well, only one thing to do. You know the
orders."

The biophysicist squirmed uncomfortably. "Couldn't we send a squadron of
ships out to search and--"

"And what?" asked the Director, sarcastically. "You don't think I'd risk
a billion credits worth of equipment on a wild-goose chase like that, do
you? We could use up a year's appropriation of fuel and manpower and
still be unable to adequately search a sector one-tenth that size. If he
just sat still, a thousand ships couldn't find him in a thousand years,
searching at finite speeds. Add to that the fact that the target is
moving at ultra-light speed and the odds against locating him is
multiplied by a billion."

"I know, but he can't stay in space. He'll have to land somewhere,
sometime."

"True enough--but where and when?"

"Couldn't we alert all the nearby planets?"

"You know better than that. He could be halfway across the galaxy before
an ethero-gram reached the nearest planet."

"Suppose we sent scout ships to the nearer planets and asked them to
inform their neighbors in the same way. We'd soon have an expanding
circle that he _couldn't_ slip through."

The Director smiled wryly. "Maybe. But who's going to pay for all this.
By the time the circle was a thousand light-years in diameter there
would be ten thousand ships and a million clerks working on recapturing
one escaped prisoner. Another thing; I don't know offhand what he's been
sentenced for, but I'll wager there are ten thousand planets on which
his crime would not be a crime. Do you think we could ever extradite him
from such a planet? And even if by some incredible stroke of fortune one
of our agents happened to land on the right planet, in which city would
he begin his search. Or suppose our quarry lands only on uninhabited
planets? We can't very well alert the whole galaxy in the search for
just one man."

"I know, but--"

"But what?" interrupted the Director. "Any other suggestions?"

"N ... no--"

"All right, he asked for it. You have the pattern, I presume. _Feed it
to Fido!_"

"Yes, sir, but well ... I just don't--"

"Do you think _I_ like it?" asked the Director, fiercely.

In the silence that followed, they looked at each other, guiltily.

"There's nothing else we can do," said the Director. "The orders are
explicit. _No one escapes from Hades!_"

"I know," replied the biophysicist. "I'm not blaming you. Only I wish
someone else had my job."

"Well," said the Director, heavily. "You might as well get started." He
nodded his head in dismissal.

As the biophysicist went out the door, the Director looked down once
more at the pile of papers before him. He pulled the top sheet closer,
and rubber-stamped across its face--CASE CLOSED.

"Yes," he mused aloud. "Closed for us, but--" He hesitated a moment, and
then sighing once more, signed his name in the space provided.

       *       *       *       *       *

AUGUST 6, 430th Year GALACTIC ERA

Tee Ormond sat morosely at the spaceport bar, and alternately wiped his
forehead with a soggy handkerchief, and sipped at his frosted rainbow,
careful not to disturb the varicolored layers of liquid in the tall
narrow glass. Every now and then he nervously ran his fingers through
his straight black hair, which lay damply plastered to his head. His
jacket was faded and worn, and above the left pocket was emblazoned the
meteor insignia of the spaceman. A dark patch on his back showed where
the perspiration had seeped through. He blinked and rubbed the corner of
his eye as a drop of perspiration ran down and settled there.

A casual look would have classified him as a very average looking pilot
such as could be found at the bar of any spaceport; i.e. if space pilots
can ever be classified as average. Spacemen are the last true
adventurers in an age where the debilitating culture of a highly
mechanized civilization has pushed to the very borders of the galaxy.
While most men are fearful and indecisive outside their narrow
specialties the spacemen must at all times be ready to deal with the
unexpected and the unusual. The expression--"Steady as a spaceman's
nerves"--had a very real origin.

A closer look at Tee would have revealed the error of a quick
classification. He gripped his drink too tightly, and his eyes darted
restlessly from side to side, as though searching, searching; yet
dreading to find the object of their search. His expressive face
contorted in a nervous tic each time his eyes swept by the clock hanging
behind the bar. He glanced dispiritedly out the window at the
perpetually cloudy sky and idly watched a rivulet of water race down the
dirty pane. He loosened his collar and futilely mopped at his neck with
the soggy handkerchief, then irritably flung it to the floor.

"Hey, Jo," he yelled to the bartender. "What's the matter with the
air-conditioning? I'm burning up."

"Take it easy," soothed the bartender, consulting a thermometer on the
wall behind him, "it's eighty-five in here. That's as low as the law
allows. Can't have too much difference in the temperature or all my
customers'd pass out when they go outside. Why don't you go into town?
They keep it comfortable under the dome."

"Don't this planet _ever_ cool off?" asked Tee.

The bartender chuckled. "I see you don't know too much about Thymis.
Sometimes it drops to ninety at night, but not too often. You ought to
be here sometime when the clouds part for a minute. If you're caught
outside then, it's third-degree burns for sure."

He glanced down at the nearly empty glass. "How about another rainbow?
If you get enough of them in you, you won't notice the heat--you won't
notice anything." He laughed uproariously at the hoary joke.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tee looked at him disgustedly and without answering bent to his drink
once more. He felt someone jostle his elbow and turned sideways to allow
the newcomer access to the bar. After a moment he wiped his forehead on
his sleeve. The bartender placed another rainbow before him.

"Hey, I didn't order that," he cried.

The bartender nodded toward the next stool. "On him."

Tee turned and saw a barrel-chested red-haired giant holding up a drink
in the immemorial bar toast. He raised his own glass gingerly, but his
trembling hand caused the layers to mix and he stared ruefully at the
resultant clayey-looking mess.

The redhead laughed. "Mix another one, Jo."

"But--" Tee's face got red.

"I came in here to talk to you anyway," said the giant. "You own the
_Starduster_, don't you?"

"Yeah, what about it?"

"Like to get her out of hock?"

"Who says she's in hock?"

"Look," said the redhead. "Let's not kid each other. Everybody around
this port knows you blew in from Lemmyt last month and can't raise the
money to pay the port charges, much less the refueling fee. And it's no
secret that you're anxious to leave our fair planet." He winked
conspiringly at Tee.

"So?"

The redhead glanced at the bartender who was busy at the other end of
the bar. He leaned closer and whispered. "I know where the _Elen of
Troy_ is."

"The _Elen of Troy_?"

"Oh, that's right, you wouldn't know about her. Eight months ago she
crashed on an uninhabited planet somewhere in this sector. So far
they've been unable to find her." He leaned closer. "She was carrying
four million in Penryx crystals."

"What's that to me?"

The redhead looked around briefly to make sure no one was in hearing
distance, then whispered softly, without moving his lips. "I told you,
they can't find her, but _I_ know where she is."

"_You_ know? But how--"

"Look," said the giant, frowning, "I didn't ask you why _you're_ so
anxious to leave."

"Well?"

"I'll clear your ship and we can pick up the crystals for the salvage
fee. A million each, and all nice and legal. We can leave by the end of
the week and be back in probably six months."

"_Six months!_" Tee stood up. "Sorry!"

The redhead grabbed his arm in a hamlike palm. "A million each in six
months; what's wrong with that?"

Tee jerked out of his grasp. "I ... I just can't do it."

"I don't know what you're running from," persisted the redhead, "but
with a million credits you can fight extradition for the rest of your
life. This is your big chance, can't you see that. Besides, this planet
has some interesting customs." He winked at Tee. "I can introduce you--"

"I can't stay here," interrupted Tee. "You just don't understand."

"Look," cried the redhead exasperatedly, "I'm offering you a full
partnership on a two million credit salvage deal and you want to back
out because it'll take six months. On top of that you're broke and
stranded and your hangar bill gets bigger every day. If you don't take
me up on this deal, you'll still be sitting here six months from now
wondering how to get your ship out of hock--if you don't get caught
first. What do you say? What've you got to lose?"

What did he have to lose? Tee gripped the edge of the bar till his
knuckles showed white. "No! I just can't do it. Why don't you get
someone else?"

"The slow tubs around this port would take years for the trip. I can see
the _Starduster_ has class."

"Fastest thing in the galaxy," said Tee, proudly. Then earnestly, "I'm
sorry, you'll just have to find some other ship."

"Think it over," said the redhead. "I'll wait. When you change your mind
look me up. Name's Yule Larson." He slapped Tee heavily on the back and
swaggered toward the door. He turned and looked back. "Better go along
with me. After six months they can auction off your ship to pay for the
port charges, you know." The door swung shut behind him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tee sat down again and bent his head, nursing his drink. His eyes darted
nervously around the room and came to rest on the clock. A shudder ran
through him and he lowered his eyes quickly. As he sipped his drink his
eyes returned to the clock continually, as though drawn there against
their will. As he watched, the minute hand jerked downward and an
involuntary gasp escaped his lips.

The bartender turned quickly. "Anything wrong?"

"N ... no, nothing." As he spoke, the minute hand moved again and Tee
started nervously, upsetting his drink. He sat for a moment watching the
bartender mop up the spreading liquid, then abruptly got up and tossed a
half-credit piece on the bar. He hurried outside, steeling himself to
keep from running. He paused just outside the door.

_Stand still_, he told himself. _Mustn't run! Mustn't run! No use
anyway. If I only knew when. If I just could stop and rest. If I had the
time ... Time! Time! That's what I need. Light-years of time ... But
when? When? If only I could be sure._ He looked up slowly at the murky
canopy of clouds. _If I only knew when!_ He looked indecisively up and
down the field, then squaring his shoulders resolutely, set out for the
administration building.

At this hour the office was deserted except for a wispy-haired little
man who sat at a desk fussing with some papers. He looked up
questioningly as Tee came in.

"Is my ship re-charged and provisioned?" asked Tee.

"Uh, what's the name please?"

"Tee Ormond. I own the _Starduster_."

The clerk pulled a card from a file on the desk and studied it. "Ah,
yes, the _Starduster_."

"I'd like to pay my bill and clear the _Starduster_ for immediate
departure."

"Uh, very good, Mr. Ormond." He consulted the card again. "That'll be
fourteen hundred and eleven credits." He beamed. "We included a case of
Ruykeser's Concentrate, compliments of the management." He handed a
circular to Tee. "This is a list of our ports and facilities on other
planets. Our accommodations are the finest, and we carry a complete line
of parts." He smiled professionally.

"What about my key?" asked Tee, pulling out his wallet.

"Uh, let's see, number thirty-seven." The clerk started for a numbered
board hanging on the wall. He never got there.

Tee whipped a stun-gun from inside his jacket and waved it at the
clerk's back. It caught him in mid-stride, and unbalanced, he crashed
heavily to the floor. Tee glanced briefly down as he stepped over the
paralyzed form, avoiding the accusing eyes, and snatched the magnetic
key off the hook. He forced himself to walk calmly across the field
toward the hangar that housed the _Starduster_.

A uniformed guard stopped him at the hangar door. "May I see your
clearance, sir?" he asked, politely.

Tee hesitated for a moment. "Oh, I'm just going to get something out of
my ship," he said, smoothly. "The clerk said it was roj."

"The clerk said? But he can't--" The guard tensed. "Mind if I check,
sir? Orders, you know." He bent his head slightly as he pressed a knob
on his wrist radio. As his eyes turned downward, Tee swung the stun-gun
in an arc that ended on the back of the guard's head. As he leaped into
the _Starduster_ he was sorry for a moment that he hadn't had time to
recharge the gun, and hoped he hadn't struck too hard.

[Illustration]

       *       *       *       *       *

OCTOBER 11, 433rd Year GALACTIC ERA

Tee stepped out of the hangar and surveyed the twin suns. The pale
binaries sat stolidly on the horizon, forty degrees apart. Their mingled
light washed down dimly on the single continent of the planet, Aurora.

He started, as a man walked around the corner of the hangar. The man
looked at Tee searchingly for a moment, then asked, "Anything troubling
you, Tee?"

"Why ... why, no, Mr. Jenner. You just startled me, that's all."

"Well, how's everything coming?"

"Right on schedule. We'll be ready for the final test by the end of the
week."

"By the way," asked Jenner, speculatively, "how come you ordered the
ship stocked and provisioned, for the test?"

"Why ... why I think she should be tested under exactly the same
conditions as she'll encounter in actual use."

"We could have done it a lot cheaper by just using ballast," said
Jenner. "After this, I want to personally see any voucher for over a
hundred credits before it's cleared."

"Yes, sir, but I just didn't want to bother you with details."

"An expenditure of over two thousand credits isn't just detail; but let
it pass. It's already done. Anyway, on the drawing board she's the
fastest thing in the galaxy." He smiled. "If she lives up to
expectations, she'll make your ship look like an old freighter. We've
got four million sunk in her so far, so she'd better check out roj."

He put his hand on Tee's shoulder. "You're not worried about testing
her, are you? You've been jumpy lately."

"Oh, no, nothing like that, Mr. Jenner. I'm just ... well, I've been up
all night watching them install the gyroscopes. Think I'll get some
sleep." He yawned.

Jenner cupped his chin in his palm and stood staring after the
retreating figure. As Tee turned and looked back nervously, Jenner
entered the hangar office. He spoke softly into the visiphone and in a
moment the screen lit up.

"Is this the prison administrator?" asked Jenner.

"What can I do for you?"

"My name is Jenner; Consolidated Spacecraft."

"Yes?"

"Suppose an escaped prisoner from Hades landed on Aurora?"

"_No one_ escapes from Hades Prison."

"Well, just suppose one did?"

"I never receive information about escapees."

"But you're the administrator here."

"My job, as the title implies, is purely administrative. I merely
arrange transportation for our annual shipment of prisoners to Hades,
and see that the records are kept straight."

"But whom _would_ they contact in the event of an escape?"

The administrator pursed his lips in impatience. "Hades has six billion
prisoners at any given time. If one did manage to escape, they couldn't
very well alert a million planets."

"You mean you wouldn't do anything?"

"As I said before, my job is purely administrative. Out of my
jurisdiction entirely. Each planet has its own police force and handles
its internal crime in its own way. What's legal on Aurora might very
well be illegal on ten thousand other planets, and vice versa."

"I see. Thank you." Jenner cut the connection slowly. He flicked the
switch open again, hesitated, and then closed it.

       *       *       *       *       *

He walked out to where his gyrocar was parked, and in a few minutes set
it down on the roof of Tee's hotel. Tee was just entering the lobby as
Jenner came in and they went up to his room together.

"I'll come right to the point, Tee," he said, as soon as the door had
closed. "I just talked to the local prison administrator for Hades." He
looked closely at Tee.

"What's that got to do with me?" asked Tee, belligerently.

"Wait until I finish," said Jenner, curtly. "I hired you to test-hop our
new ship because you were the best pilot available. I'm not interested
in your past, but most of the company's resources are sunk in that
ship. If something goes wrong because the test pilot is disturbed or
nervous, the company will be bankrupt. I'm not saying you're an escaped
prisoner, but if you were, you'd have nothing to worry about."

"What do you mean?"

"The administrator told me he has no jurisdiction over escaped
prisoners, so you see, if you had escaped, you'd have nothing to fear
here. You're out of their jurisdiction."

Tee began to laugh wildly. "_Out of their jurisdiction! Out of their
jurisdiction!_ So that's the way they put it. _Out of their
jurisdiction!_"

"Stop it!" said Jenner, sharply. "Do you want to tell me now?"

Tee drew in a gasping breath and sobered. "What would I have to tell
you? So I'm the nervous type. So you hired me to test-hop your new ship.
So I'll test-hop it. That's all we agreed on. What more do you want?"

Jenner sighed. "Roj, Tee, if that's the way you want it, but I wish--"

The visiphone buzzed, and when Tee flipped the switch, the worried face
of the chief mechanic sprang into focus. "Oh, there you are, Mr. Jenner.
Glad I caught you before you left. We've run into trouble."

"Well, out with it," barked Jenner. "What is it?"

The mechanic cleared his throat nervously. "We were testing the main
gyroscope when it threw a blade."

"How bad is it?" asked Jenner.

"Pretty bad, I'm afraid. It tore up the subetherscope unit so bad we'll
have to replace it. We can't get any on Aurora either. We'll have to
send to Lennix, and that'll take close to a month."

"Roj! Knock off until I get there," barked Jenner. He slammed over the
switch, viciously. "Of all the rotten luck!"

"Can't you get some plant here on Aurora to hand tool one for you?"
asked Tee.

"No, that's just it," replied Jenner. "It's a special alloy. The owners
of the process wouldn't give us any details on the manufacture. Anyway,
even if we knew how, we couldn't duplicate it without their special
machine tools."

"Does that mean--"

"I'm afraid so. The ship won't be ready for a month, now."

"_A month!_ I can't wait a month."

"_You_ can't wait a month? We've got four million tied up in that ship
and you tell me _you_ can't wait a month."

"Look, Mr. Jenner, I'll test it without the unit."

"That's impossible. The ship would vibrate into a billion pieces as soon
as it went into subspace. No! We'll just have to wait."

"I can't wait," cried Tee. "You'll have to get another pilot."

"Just a minute! You can't walk out on your contract. If it's a matter of
credits--"

Tee shook his head. "That's not it at all. I just can't stay that long."

Jenner looked at him angrily. "Well, your contract isn't up till the
end of the week anyway. We'll see what we can do about a replacement
then."

       *       *       *       *       *

After Jenner had left, Tee sat smoking in the darkness. He placed his
elbow on the couch arm and cupped his chin in his palm. Then restlessly,
he snuffed out his cigarette and rubbed his hands together. They felt
moist and clammy. He jerked nervously as a click sounded out in the
hall. Only a door opening across the way. He bit the fleshy part of his
middle finger and then began to worry his ring with his teeth. He lit
another cigarette and dropped it into the disposal almost immediately.

He got up and began to pace the room. Six steps forward. Turn. Six steps
back. Turn. Six steps forward--or was it five this time? The walls
seemed to be closing in, constricting. His head felt light and his
tongue and palate grew dry. He tried to swallow, and a feeling of nausea
came over him. His throat grew tight and he felt as though he were
choking. Rubbing his forehead with the back of his hand it came away wet
with perspiration. He rushed to the window and struggled futilely with
it, forgetting it was sealed shut in the air-conditioned hotel. He flung
himself at the door, wrenching it open and took the escalator three
steps at a time falling to his knees at the ground floor. A surface cab
was sitting outside just beyond the entrance. He flung himself in,
breathing heavily and fumbling to drop a coin in the slot, pulled the
control lever all the way over.

Twenty minutes later, the _Starduster_ hovered for a moment over Aurora,
then shimmered and vanished as it went into subspace.

       *       *       *       *       *

OCTOBER 2, 435th Year GALACTIC ERA

The _Starduster_ materialized just outside the atmosphere of the planet
Elysia, and fluttered erratically downward, like a wounded bird. A
hundred feet from the surface, the ship hesitated, shuddered throughout
her length, then dropped like a plummet, crashing heavily into a grove
of trees.

For Tee there was a long period of blessed darkness, of peace, of
non-remembering, then his mind clawed upward toward consciousness. The
fear and uncertainty were with him again--nagging, nibbling, gnawing at
his reason.

He fought to close his mind and drift back down into the darkness of
peace and forgetting, but contrarily the past marched in review before
his consciousness: The twin worlds of Thole revolving about each other
as he fled down the shallow ravine before the creeping wall of lava,
while the ancient mountain grunted and belched, and coughed up its
insides. The terrible pull of the uncharted black star as it tugged at
the feeble _Starduster_. The enervating heat and humidity of perpetually
cloudy Thymis. Pyramids of gleaming penryx crystals piled high as
mountains, and Yule Larson towering above the landscape, draining
gargantuan rainbows at a single gulp; striding like Paul Bunyan across
the land in mile-long strides and kicking over the pyramids of crystals,
laughing uproariously at the sport. And Jenner, grinning idiotically,
pointing a thick finger at him and repeating over and over: "Out of
their jurisdiction! Nothing to fear! Nothing to fear! Nothing to fear!
Noth--"

"Stop it! Stop it!" cried Tee, and a brilliant burst of light like a
thousand sky-rockets seemed to go off in his head. He shrieked like an
animal in agony, then fell back sobbing, bathed in perspiration.

Something cool touched his forehead and he pulled away violently, then
as his head cleared he opened his eyes slowly. A blur of shadows and
light shimmering indistinctly, then suddenly like the picture on a
visiphone the blurs coalesced and formed a clear image, and everything
was normal again, the fear still hovering close, but pushed back for the
time being.

A girl stood before him smiling rather uncertainly. The sweetness and
cleanness of that smile after his recent ordeal washed over his tortured
mind like a cooling astringent, and he smiled gratefully up at her. She
put a cool palm on his forehead and as she started to withdraw it he
clutched it in an emaciated fist and mumbled indistinctly through
cracked dry lips.

She smiled down at him and smoothed back his damp hair. She pulled up a
chair beside the bed and continued to stroke his hair until his eyes
closed in sleep.

He awoke ravenous and thirsty, but lay quietly for a time, luxuriating
in the feel of the clean soft sheets. He was in a simply but tastefully
decorated room. Three of the walls were made of transparent glass and
the warm golden rays of a type G sun bathed the room. Outside he could
see green rolling meadowland, broken here and there by sylvan groves. A
brilliantly colored bird swooped down and preened itself for a moment,
then raised its head and flooded the silence with melody. Faintly from a
grove of trees came an answering treble. The songbird cocked its head to
the side, listening, then swooped upward on wings of flashing color. A
small squirrellike creature bounded nervously up to the transparent wall
and sat on its haunches, surveying the room with bright beady eyes. As
Tee's ears attuned themselves he was suddenly aware of chirpings,
trebles, clearpitched whistles, and from somewhere in the depths of the
grove, a deep-pitched ga-rooph, ga-roomph.

       *       *       *       *       *

A chubby little man with a round face and alert twinkling eyes entered
the room. He seemed to radiate happiness and contentment. "Well, I see
the patient's finally come around," he said, cheerfully.

"What happened?" asked Tee.

"Your ship crashed just beyond that grove."

Tee clutched at him. "The ship! How bad is it?"

"I think you were in worse shape than your ship. You must have had it
under control almost to the end, though how you stayed conscious with
space fever is beyond me."

"Space fever? So that's it. I remember getting sick and light-headed and
just before I passed out I flipped out of subspace and the automatic
finder, of course, took the ship to the nearest planet. I must have
landed by reflex action. I sure don't remember anything about it."

"Well," the man laughed, "I _have_ seen better landings, but not when
the pilot had a temperature of one-o-five. Anyway, you're safe now.
Welcome to Elysia."

There it was again. Safe! Safe! Tee raised up, then fell back weakly.

"Is anything wrong?" asked the little man, alarmed.

"N ... nothing, I just ... nothing!"

The man was looking at him questioningly.

"Elysia," mused Tee. "I seem to remember an old old myth brought from
the original Earth." He waved toward the sylvan setting, outside.

The little man smiled. "Yes, the old settlers named our planet well." He
caught himself. "Oh, I'm sorry; I'm Dr. Chensi. This is my home."

Tee smiled. "Well at least you'll have to admit I showed good judgment
crashing next to a doctor's house." Then more seriously, "Thanks, doc,
thanks for everything."

"My degrees aren't in medicine," replied Dr. Chensi. "I'm afraid I had
little to do with your recovery. My daughter's the one who nursed you.
Oh, here she is now." He raised his voice. "Come in, Lara."

Since Dr. Chensi was using the only chair she sat down on the edge of
the bed.

"Here," said the doctor, teasingly, "what kind of nurse are you, mussing
up your patient's bed?"

She pouted prettily. "He's _my_ patient." Then looking down at Tee with
a smile, "You'll be up and around in no time now."

"_Time!_" cried Tee, raising up. "_What's the date? I've got to know!_"

"You've been delirious for two weeks," answered the doctor. "Another two
weeks of convalescence and you ought to be as good as new."

"But two weeks, I can't--"

"Can't leave before then anyway," replied the doctor calmly. "I knew
you'd want your ship repaired so I had it hauled to the port. Won't be
ready for two more weeks. So you might as well relax."

Tee bit his lip, and clenched his fists to keep from trembling. It was a
moment before he could trust himself to speak without a quaver in his
voice. "Nothing else I can do, I guess. Thanks, anyway. And by the way,
there's enough credits in the ship's safe to pay for the repairs, I'm
sure."

"I think we should start the patient walking tomorrow," said Lara, in a
mock-professional voice. She punched the ends of Tee's pillow. "Now
you'd better get some sleep. You're still very weak, you know."

       *       *       *       *       *

The days that followed were like an idyll for Tee. With Lara he wandered
through the parklike wooded groves. They sat near shaded pools and ate
wild berries while she told him stories of the founding of Elysia. They
held hands and ran exuberantly across the grassy meadows, and waded like
children in the clear brooks.

A thousand times, a word, an endearing term, sprang to his lips, and
each time the fear clamped his tongue in a vise of steel. A thousand
times he wanted to touch her, feel the silkiness of her hair, the warmth
of her lips, but each time the fear and uncertainty stood between them
like twin specters of doom, pointing and saying, "Fool! Why torture
yourself?"

In the daytime when Lara was with him it wasn't so bad, but at night the
fear and uncertainty crowded to the fore and blanked out everything
else. It was then he prayed for the courage to kill himself, and
despised the weakness that made him draw back from the thought. If only
he could stop thinking. Make his mind a blank. But that was death, and
death was what he feared. How long ago was it when he'd first realized
that hope was an illusion, a false god that smiled and lied, and held
out vain promises only to prolong the torture?

Then one day the word came that his ship was repaired. As though the
word were a catalyst the terrible fear overwhelmed him, drowning out
every other thought, and he knew he had to leave. When he had no means
of leaving the planet he could partially close off his dread and wait
resignedly. But now that the ship was ready, every moment he remained
was an agony.

He led Lara to their favorite spot by a quiet pool. She looked radiant,
and smiled to herself, as though at a secret. He steeled himself and
finally blurted out, "Lara, I'm leaving tomorrow." He hesitated and bit
his lip. "And ... thanks for everything."

"Thanks?" She choked on the words.

"I'm sorry--" he trailed off, lamely.

"But ... but I thought--" She looked down.

He reached out and gently touched her cheek. "Can't you see I _want_ to
stay?" he pleaded.

"Then why? Why?" She was crying now.

"I ... I just can't. It's no good." He stood up.

She reached out and caught his hand. "Then take me with you. I've heard
you at night pacing in your room. I don't know what it is that drives
you on and on, but if space is what you want, let me go with you. I can
help you, darling. You'll see. And some day when you grow tired of
space, we can come back to Elysia." She was babbling now.

He pulled roughly away. "No! It's no good. I'm--If only I _could_
stay." He brushed her hair softly with his palm and as she reached out
toward him he turned and walked swiftly toward the house, pitying and
hating himself by turn, while Lara sat forlornly by the pool looking
after him.

He began to sweat before he reached the house and his knees began to
tremble so, he had to stop for a moment, to keep his balance.
Determinedly he started forward again and continued on past the house to
the highway that wound by half a kilometer away. There he hailed a
passing ground car and rode to the spaceport, where a few judiciously
distributed credits facilitated his immediate clearance. Before the ship
had even left the atmosphere he rammed in the subspace control.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAY 4, 437th Year GALACTIC ERA

Tantalus lay far out on a spiral arm, well away from the main stream of
traffic that flowed through the galaxy. It was a fair planet boasting an
equable climate, at least in the tropic zone. But as yet the population
was small, consisting mostly of administrative officials who served
their alloted time and thankfully returned to their home planets closer
to the center of population.

Tee entered the towering building and after consulting a wall directory
stepped into the antigrav chute and was whisked high up into the heart
of the building. He stepped out before a plain door and as he advanced
the center panel fluoresced briefly with the printed legend--GALACTIC
PRISON AUTHORITY, Ary Mefford, Administrator for Tantalus.

He hesitated for a moment, then squaring his shoulders stepped forward,
and as he crossed the beam the door swung open before him. The
gray-haired man sitting at the desk studying a paper, looked up and
smiled politely. He indicated a chair with a nod then bent his head
again. After a moment he shoved the paper aside and looked questioningly
at Tee.

"I want to give myself up," blurted Tee.

"I'm the administrator for Hades," said the man calmly. "I think you
want the _local_ authorities."

"You don't understand. I escaped from Hades."

"No one escapes from Hades," replied the administrator.

"_I_ escaped!" insisted Tee. "Ten years ago. You can check. I'm tired of
running. I want to go back."

"This is most unusual," said the administrator in a disturbed voice. He
looked unbelievingly at Tee. "_Ten years_ ago you say?"

"_Yes! Yes!_ And I'm ready to go back, before it's too late. Can't you
understand?"

The administrator shook his head pityingly. "It's already too late. I'm
sorry." He bent his head guiltily and began to fumble with the papers on
his desk.

Tee started to say something, but the administrator raised his head and
said slowly, "It was too late the day you left Hades. Nothing I can
do." He looked down again. Tee turned and slowly walked out the door.
The administrator didn't look up.

As Tee walked aimlessly down the deserted corridor, his footsteps echoed
hollowly like a dirge. A line from an old poem sprang to his mind: "We
are the dead, row on row we lie--" He was the dead, but still he chased
the chimera of hope, yet knowing in his heart it was hopeless.

       *       *       *       *       *

JUNE 11, 437th Year GALACTIC ERA

The _Starduster_, pocked and pitted from innumerable collisions with
dust particles, sped out and out. The close-packed suns of the central
hub lay far behind. Here at the rim of the galaxy the stars lay
scattered, separated by vast distances. A gaunt hollow-eyed figure sat
in the observation bubble staring half-hopefully, half-despairingly at
the unimaginable depths beyond the rim.

       *       *       *       *       *

JUNE 12, 437th Year GALACTIC ERA

On and on past the thinning stars raced the patient electronic
bloodhound; invisible, irreversible, indestructible; slowly, but
inexorably accelerating. It flashed by the planet Damocles at multiples
of the speed of light, and sensing the proximity of the prey on which it
was homed, spurted into the intergalactic depths after the receding
ship, intent on meshing with and thereby distorting the encephalograph
pattern of its target. It was quite mindless, and the final pattern its
meshing would create would be something quite strange, and not very
human.

THE END





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Faithfully Yours, by Lou Tabakow

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FAITHFULLY YOURS ***

***** This file should be named 24566.txt or 24566.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/4/5/6/24566/

Produced by Greg Weeks, LN Yaddanapudi and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
