The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Premiere, by Richard Sabia

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Premiere

Author: Richard Sabia

Release Date: March 18, 2008 [EBook #24865]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PREMIERE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration]


 _The young actor was great....
 They didn't realize just how great
 until the night of_


 THE
 PREMIERE

 By RICHARD SABIA


Clamped to the contour couch, the young girl strained against the padded
steel grips and screamed. Again she writhed and screamed as she felt the
hideous touch of the monster snatching at her. She struggled frenziedly
through the muck of the swamp but the thing with the blood eyes
scrabbled faster on its rotten limbs. The thing seized her in its
obscene embrace. Raw terror tore another scream from her throat. Behind
her on the projector a needle slammed into the red zone. Beyond the
hundreds of long rows of couches a warning light flashed on the control
console of Mezzanine F and its persistent buzz snared the attention of
one of the ushers. He glanced at the light's location number and ran
along one of the aisles till he came to the girl. He saw that the
projector had shut off the feature feelie and was running the emergency
tranquil strip. She had stopped screaming but her breathing was still
agitated. He looked around at the rows of couches, nearly all occupied
but none of the other patrons seemed more frightened than they should
be. Some of the other ushers had halted on their rounds and were looking
quizzically across at him. He shrugged the question back at them,
removed the feelie permit from its clip on the girl's couch and checked
the permitted intensity level against the setting of the projector. They
matched. Still puzzled, he examined the other settings without
discovering any apparent cause for her fright-hysteria. The tranquil
strip ended and the machine shut itself off. The usher moved a switch
that released the pressure of the electrodes against the girl's head and
retracted them into the headset. Her eyes opened as he removed the
apparatus and folded back the clamps.

"Feel all right, miss?" he inquired with a solicitous smile.

She nodded, but her eyes still held echoes of alarm.

"Better come down to the clinic," he said gently, assisting her from the
couch.

She said nothing but allowed him to lead her along. They stepped into a
float shaft and drifted gently down past other floors of the theater
occupied by the myriad rows of feelie couches. When they reached what
was obviously an office level, the usher grasped a tug bar which pulled
them into a corridor opening. He brought her to the clinic and left her
with the doctor after explaining what had happened.

       *       *       *       *       *

The doctor seated her alongside his desk. "How do you feel now?"

She smiled weakly. "All right Ah guess," she said with a soft drawl.

"Let's see," he said looking at her feelie permit, "you are Miss, ah,
Loretta Meenan, and, well, you are from Hammond, Louisiana." He looked
up at her and smiled. "May I ask how old you are Miss Meenan?"

"Sixteen."

"A very charming sixteen, I must say. Are you here with your family?"

"Yes. Ma an' pa are at the convention. They let us come to the feelies."

"Us?"

"Mah older brother, Jason."

"Oh? How old is he?"

"Eighteen. But he's big, real man-lookin' an' folks who don't know
mistake him for past twenty."

"What couch did he have?"

"Next to mine on the left."

The doctor consulted his notepad. "Ah, that would make it number, ah,
six thousand forty-two. We'll have one of the ushers bring him down."

"Please don't," she said hastily. "Not 'till the feelie's over anyhow.
He'll have the furies with me if he misses the endin' on mah account."

"All right," the doctor agreed amiably. "How are you enjoying your visit
to New York?"

"Ah'm havin' a dazzlin' time."

"Good. Do you go to the feelies at home?" The doctor saw her tense
forward from the curve of the chair.

"Yes."

"Enjoy them?"

"Yes."

"Have you ever been badly upset by horror feelies before?"

"No, sir."

The doctor was aware of the apprehension behind her guardedness. "Do you
have any idea why this one should have upset you so?"

"No, sir, except maybe the excitement. Ah ain't never been much away
from home before but once to New Orleans."

The doctor looked at her permit card again. "This isn't a very good
likeness of you."

"It does reflect me poorly," she murmured.

The doctor's smile evaporated from his suddenly stern face. "Perhaps
it's because this is not your picture and this is not your card."

Her face went white.

"What is your name?"

"Robina Rowe." Her downcast eyes were locked on her fingers squirming in
her lap.

"Who's Loretta Meenan?"

"Mah girlfriend."

"Why did you borrow her card?"

She was close to tears. "Ah jus' had to go to this feelie. It's got mah
very favorite actor in it."

"Evidently your card doesn't permit you to attend horror feelies."

She nodded.

"Why not? Nightmares?"

She shook her head.

"Don't tell me you have a bad heart!"

She shook her head again. "Ah'm a Sensitive," she said bleakly.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a sudden surge of anger the doctor half rose out of his chair and
leaned across the desk. "Why you little fool!" he roared. "You little
damn fool!"

From the open doorway a shape hurtled across the desk at the doctor and
crashed with him to the floor.

"Jason!" Robina shrieked.

"Don't you talk to mah sister that way," Jason shouted as he pummelled
the doctor. "Ah'll kill you!"

The usher who had guided Jason to the clinic dashed around the desk to
pull the boy from the doctor. Robina tried to help but in the tussle she
was knocked down, striking her head on a leg of the overturned chair.
Jason, hearing her cry of pain, leaped off the doctor to aid her.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It's only a little bump," Jason said reassuringly as he cradled her in
his arms.

The doctor got to his feet and glared at the tall, strikingly handsome
boy-man helping his sister to a chair.

That done, Jason whirled to face the doctor. "Now listen here--"

"Now you listen to me," the doctor shouted. He saw Jason gather himself
as if for another leap but Robina placed a restraining hand on his arm
and his fists slowly uncurled. "If you loved your sister as much as you
pretend to you wouldn't have helped her try to kill herself!"

"What do you mean?" the boy said sullenly.

"You know damn well what I mean," the doctor said. "You _know_ your
sister is a Sensitive. She experiences things with ten times the impact
of an ordinary person and her empathy threshold is so high a death scene
in a feelie could kill her! And if you don't know what some of the words
mean," the doctor said, noticing Jason's slight puzzlement, "you do know
what your sister is and the care that has to be taken."

The guilt in Jason's abashed face agreed.

Fired by his anger, the doctor raged on. "Why the devil do you think we
have laws concerning attendance permits? What do you think all that
testing by doctors and psychologists before a permit is issued is for?
You, you big ox, could be killed by fright too if the intensity level of
the projector was set higher than your psycho-profile rating."

He saw his last words had lost the boy again. "In any case you know
better. Why did you allow your sister to endanger her life by letting
her illegally use another's permit? And of all things, a horror feelie!"

"Ah didn't want to take her," Jason complained, "but she jus' fussed an'
fretted at me 'till Ah gave in."

"Well you've both broken the law. Your parents will be notified and
you'll have to stay here until they come." The doctor buzzed and a guard
appeared. "Take these two to Mr. Lemson's office," he instructed him.

The guard led them from the floating steel and crystal theater structure
of the U-Live-It Corporation complex to the executive wing of the
general offices. He stayed with them until the receptionist at the
office suite of Vice President Cyrus W. Lemson ushered them inside.

After having them seat themselves, Mr. Lemson stared at Jason in his
tight, crimson, dress dungarees and rhinestone speckled, black shirt
which accentuated his lithe, muscled body. _Eighteen or not_, he thought
in mild astonishment, _that handsome giant is no boy_. "The doctor
viphoned me about you," he said sternly. He spoke to them further about
the seriousness of what they had done and told them their parents were
on the way down. Then he took them into an interior office furnished
like a luxurious living room. "Please wait here," he said, "until your
people arrive. Magazines are there on the table and you may turn on the
television set." He closed the door.

"Want me to turn on the television set?" Jason asked.

"No, Ah don't much feel like it."

They settled themselves on the enormous couch and Robina looked at her
brother. "Jason, Ah'm real sorry. Ah went an' stirred up a hornet's nest
of trouble for you again."

"Don't fret about it, Robee. They won't really do nothin' serious.
They'll talk to Ma an' Pa an' Pa'll make like he's goin' to cuff us
aroun' when we get back to the hotel an' instead he'll jus' look dark
an' make us feel bad with his talk. It'll jus' be a lot of commotion
like a bee stuck in a tar bucket."

"Ah guess," Robina said. She cast a sheepish glance at her brother. "Say
Jason, how did the feelie end up?"

Jason was indignant. "Now listen, Robee, ain't you had enough? You heard
the doc say that last was like to kill you."

"Please, Jason, there's nothin' wrong with you jus' _tellin'_ me."

"It's almost as bad. You still get yourself all flittered up."

"That's because nobody can tell a story like you do, the way you act it
out an' all."

"Ah don't act it out. Ah jus' tell it."

"Well _you_ might call it tellin' but everybody home says it's jus' like
a feelie when you do it. An' don't pretend you don't know it, brother
Jay, an' enjoy it too!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Jason did not tell the ending of the feelie; he recreated it. He was the
monster slurching across the floor toward her, step by scraping step and
in spite of her fist on her mouth a tiny nervous scream escaped Robina.
Jason wanted to stop then but she badgered him into continuing. Now he
was the hero, Gregg Mason, battling the unspeakable fiend and she
shivered uncontrollably as she watched them struggle to the death. In a
last, desperate, superhuman effort, Gregg's hands clawed into the
monster's body and ripped out the foul, quivering heart of it. The
creature twisted to the ground and perished in its own slime. Gregg,
torn and bleeding and with shock-frozen eyes, turned and staggered into
the arms of Robina.

"Oh, Gregg, Gregg," Robina cried in relief, the tears streaming down her
face.

"It's okay, Joan," he said comforting her, "okay. It's all over now.
C'mon now, Joan, get out from behind those tears so you can see how much
Ah love you. Everything's all right."

"Oh, Gregg!" A weak smile broke through.

Gregg enfolded Joan in his arms and pressed his mouth against her eager
lips.

"What are you two _doing_?!!" a shocked voice exclaimed from the open
door.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gregg and Joan were blown away by the sound like spindrift before the
wind. Jason and Robina slowly came apart to see Mr. Lemson and another
man coming into the room.

"What is the matter with you both?" Mr. Lemson spoke again. "Aren't you
in enough trouble now?"

"Let me handle this, Cy," the other man said stepping forward. "I'm Bob
Herschell," he said smiling and radiating friendliness at the
youngsters. "Would you please tell me exactly what you were doing before
we came in here?"

"Weren't doin' nothin'," Jason said belligerently.

"Shades of the decadent South!" Lemson exclaimed. "Brother and sister
glued together and he calls it _nothin'_."

"Ah wasn't kissin' her like you think," Jason said hotly. "Ah was
tellin' her a story."

"What kind of a story?" Herschell asked excitedly.

"Ah was tellin' her the end of the feelie we saw; Ah mean Ah saw. She
didn't get to see it."

"You mean Terror From Mars?" Herschell asked.

"Ah guess that's it. Ah don't recollect the title for certain."

"Great!" Lemson said. "It often takes a week long conference to select a
feelie title and this typical American youth can't remember the name of
the feelie he lived less than a hour ago."

"How were you telling it?" Herschell asked.

"Ah jus' told it."

"He storytells fine," Robina said proudly. "He sorta acts it out with
feelin' an' really makes it seem like it's happenin' to you right then
and there."

Herschell turned to Lemson. "I'm sure he's the one, Cy. It fits. I've
got the spark of an idea and if it works then U-Live-It will be right on
top of the feelie heap."

"We're already on top," Lemson said wearily. "U-Live-It is the biggest
producer of feelies and I think you're crazy, I think they're both
insane and I will be if you don't tell me what this is all about. You
come barging into my office--"

"Sorry, Cy, but this thing happened so fast. I'm in my office right
below you. I've got Myra Shane doing a reading, trying to convince her
the part is perfect for her. But she isn't coming through on the
receptor. Instead I'm getting the climax of Terror From Mars. Zack is
receptorman and it takes him less than no time to check through and okay
our electronics. That means only one thing. Someone, somehow, is
blotting us with another projection. I call around and no one is running
a projector and no one is reading. Your girl tells me you have a couple
of kids up there so I come up to see. And I'm sure that big rebel is
the one! He has to be!"

Lemson was alert with interest. "But he's not wearing a relay. How could
the receptor pick up and record his perceptics?"

"He might have a surgical." Herschell inquired of Jason, "Did you ever
have an operation for the insertion of an encephalic booster relay! you
know, a thought relay?"

"You mean them tiny transistor things that feelie actors have stuck in
their heads?"

"That's it."

"No, Ah never had nothin' like that," Jason said, baffled.

"That's impossible," Lemson said, "no one can project with enough
natural power to imprint a receptor unless they've got a booster."

"Well it's not impossible anymore," Herschell said gleefully. "Look Cy,
you squash this silly business about the permit. I want this fella to
make a receptor test as soon as possible. When his folks show up tell
them we might want to make a feelie star out of their son but don't
build it up or they'll be back with a regiment of lawyers and
contracts."

"Bob, you're going off the deep end with this deal. So what if he can
project _au naturel_? Can he act?"

"If you had been plugged into the receptor like I was a few minutes ago
and felt him, you wouldn't even ask."

"What about that atrocious accent?"

"Look, Cy, I'll abide by the receptor test. If he can't act; out! If
he's as terrific as I think he is we'll put him in westerns and civil
war feelies until we can train the accent out of him. Cy, if he doesn't
turn out to be the greatest thing that hit the feelie business I'll eat
my contract."

       *       *       *       *       *

Five months later Herschell came beaming into Lemson's office and tossed
an open-folded newspaper at him. "Cy, did you read Lorancelli's review
of Rowe's oatburner?"

"That's just great!" Lemson snapped. "We spend millions of advertising
and publicity dollars to convince people that we make _adult_ westerns
and you, a production vice president, go around calling them
_oatburners_."

"Okay, Cy, but read the review. He rated the feelie so so but he raves
about Jason Rowe."

Lemson picked up the paper and had it immediately snatched out of his
hands by an impatient Herschell who began reading snatches of it.
"Listen ... uh ... Jason Rowe is an intense young man whose magnificent
talent is wasted in the role of a young gunfighter in this bland
western ... uh ... he projects a sense of immediacy and aliveness
endless in its delicate ramifications of feeling. His characterization
is unmarred by even the slightest hint of extraneous awareness and
unaccompanied by the usual continual subliminal blur which is the mark
of the receptorman's frantic deletion of the actor's sublevel,
irrelevant thoughts. Either Mr. Rowe is fortunate to be blessed with a
most superiorly skilled receptorman or he is gifted with an awesome
ability to submerge his total being in the role he plays. In this feelie
it is as if Mr. Rowe, the actor, dies and imparts only his life force to
the character of the cocky youngster who comes fully alive without the
slightest trace of the personality of Jason Rowe. In this debut
performance young Rowe achieves the hitherto unattainable goal of
completely displacing the feeliegoer's identity with that of the
character he portrays. We expect great things from him for a talent such
as his illumines the theater but once in a millennium. Thanks to Mr.
Jason Rowe, the U-Live-It Corporation can now completely guarantee the
promise of its name." Herschell dropped the newspaper on the desk. "How
do you like that, Cy?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"I like it so well, I surrender," Lemson said with a pleased smile. "You
were right all along in pushing him so we'll put him in 'Land' as you
want and I'll at last have you off my back."

"Y'know, Cy, Lorancelli is wrong about the receptorman."

"He didn't exactly say--"

"Oh Zack is the best there is," Herschell interrupted, "but right after
we started recording the Rowe feelie he came in all shook up to see me.
Said the Rowe stuff was recording as if he was actually living the part.
There were no extraneous sublevels at all and that's just never happened
before. It's like Lorancelli says about Rowe dying and the character
coming to life. Zack swears that Rowe just disappears. There isn't a
speck of him that shows on the strip."

"Then Zack should be happy, not having to over-engineer the recording."

"Oh now, it isn't all breeze. There's highlighting and emphasizing
selected perceptics and such. You know Zack's the difference between the
artist and the photographer. Actually Zack's real difficulty is the
battle he has to keep from getting completely sucked in to Rowe's
portrayal while he's recording. Don't misunderstand. He's not
complaining. In fact when I suggested relieving him if the strain was
too much he said if he couldn't do Rowe's feelies I could relieve him
from the payroll. It's that much of a challenge for him. So much so,
he's designed a new receptor adaptor to prevent Rowe's potency from
overpowering him."

"Will there be any trouble in making 'Land'?"

"Yes," Herschell said bleakly as Lemson prepared to hear the worst, "we
need horses. In this atom age I'd like to know where I'm going to get a
couple of divisions of cavalry."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Why you can't even see where they put it," Robina said, fingering
Jason's skull. "Oh, wait, Ah feel a little hard lump right here. Ah'm
right ain't Ah? That's the relay."

"No it ain't," Jason said laughing. "Got that fallin' off a horse
yesterday."

"But why do you have to have one at all? Ah thought you could project
without it."

"Well Ah can, but this makes it better. This picks up all the tiny waves
from mah brain that wouldn't otherwise get recorded. Like the difference
between super high-fi an' ordinary high-fi. It makes the feelie more
real."

"When are you goin' to be in somethin' else besides westerns? Ain't you
ever goin' to get to do some romancin'?"

"Now don't you go lookin' at the wrong end of the hog, Robee. They been
keepin' our bellies filled. Besides this one Ah'm doin' now ain't no
western."

"Then what's all them horses over there for?"

"Confederate cavalry, you melon head. What you think this uniform is
Ah'm wearin'? Fine southern daughter you are!"

"Oh, a civil war feelie! What's it called?"

"... uh ... A Stillness in the Land." Jason smiled, "An' it sure would
make Mr. Lemson happy to know Ah remembered the title. They say it was a
big best seller book. Goin' to cost ten million dollars. Ah play the
lead; Jed Carter, young southern fella. Lots of love an' battles an' the
best thing is Ah don't have to fret about mah accent." Jason took his
sister's arm. "C'mon now if you want to see the set. Ah'll be havin' to
go to work in a few minutes."

       *       *       *       *       *

They passed by one of the receptors and Jason stopped. "Now here's the
machine that picks up an' records what Ah'm thinkin' an' feelin'. The
receptorman wears this gizmo on his head an' cuts in to what Ah'm
feelin' an' he fiddles them dials an' switches an' amplifies weak
signals an' cuts down overpowerin' ones an'--well, Ah don't want to
frazzle you with the technical details; he jus' controls the quality of
the recordin'. He cuts out stuff that don't belong like if Ah should be
kissin' the gal an' somewhere under those passionate thoughts Ah might
wonder when we're goin' to knock off for lunch. Here, slip this headset
on an' Ah'll get Zack to run it so you can feel how it works."

"Don't do anythin' strong," Robina advised.

"Don't worry. Jus' a peaceful bit."

Zack came over at Jason's call and ran the receptor while Jason went
through a few quiet lines with an extra.

"Why it's funny, somehow," Robina said after they removed the headset.
"It jus' didn't seem very good. Ah've felt you better without it,
Jason."

"You didn't get the full projection," Zack explained. "You see, Miss
Rowe, the receptorman has got to be alert. He can't just relax and enjoy
the scene and become the actor like a paying customer. He's got to work,
keeping the perceptics, the feelings coming through in balance. So
there's a circuit, a part of this machine that sort of shields enough of
the operator's mind and keeps it from getting lost in the story while it
runs the receptor and lets the other part live the scene."

"That sounds hard to do," Robina said.

"It takes training and special conditioning but the point is nobody
connected with the production of a feelie ever gets to feel it in all
its original depth as the feeliegoer does. Rushes are run at the lowest
intensity so that the producers and directors can comment and plan
changes as the strips are run. Even with projector intensity set high we
can't totally submerge in the character's identity because that
specially conditioned part of our minds won't submit."

"Well, you're still lucky," Robina said. "Ah'm a Sensitive and Ah'm not
allowed to go to anythin' but silly old musicals an' some comedies. Ah
can't even go to mah brother's feelies what with all the shootin' an'
everythin'."

       *       *       *       *       *

"EVERYBODY TO THEIR PLACES. RECORDING STARTS IN FIVE MINUTES." The
announcement boomed throughout the vast set and a population of extras
began to animate the streets with purposeful activity.

"Robee, honey, you'll have to go."

"Oh, Jay, can't Ah watch. Ah won't fuss around."

"'Tain't that. Nobody who ain't in the feelie can be in sight of any of
the actors they're recordin'. Why if Ah was to walk down that street as
Jed Carter and suddenly see you standin' over here in them men's
pants--"

"These ain't men's pants!" Robina said indignantly. "These are ladies
slacks."

"Ah know that but Jed Carter don't. All he knows is even a hussy
wouldn't strut around like that. Tell you what. You go over there to
where it says, Mrs. Hepple's Quality Boarding Home an' you can peek out
the parlor window at the doin's. Ah guess they had noseybodies then too.
Now get!"

Jason turned and hurried down the street, not bothering to glance after
Robina. She had crossed the street and was passing a saloon when the
omnipresent voice commanded her, "GIRL IN THE GREEN SLACKS GET OUT OF
SIGHT." She became so flustered she dashed into the saloon doorway.

Jed Carter escorted the lady from Nashville down the plank sidewalk to
her carriage. He was furious at her casual gay chatter mocking his
churning desire for her. His glance caught a movement across the street
and suddenly he went rigid with surprise and soft shock. A girl had
come out of the saloon and the hussy was wearing men's trousers. His
shock increased when he heard the delicate lady from Nashville say, "Oh,
damn, who the hell is that?" and he was further startled to see an oddly
dressed man wearing some sort of metal apparatus on his head follow the
girl out of the saloon, gesticulating angrily at her.

"CUT!" the omnipresent voice commanded and now Jed Carter was utterly
confused. The man wearing the metal apparatus crossed over to him and
spoke. "Jason, please. You know the rules about visitors on the set. No
one allowed during recording. Zack says we'll have to ask your sister to
leave."

Jed Carter saw the townspeople just standing around staring in his
direction. "What's goin' on?" he said to the odd man. "What are you
talkin' about? Who are you?"

"Oh, oh," the man with the headset exclaimed, "here we go again." He
made a signal with his hand and another man came running up. The man led
Jason up the steps of the hotel and into the lobby with a promise to
explain everything. He sat Jason in a chair. "Jason, Jason Rowe, Jason
Rowe," the man's voice pulled at him. He kept repeating the name.

A minute later Zack came into the lobby. "Jason!"

"Hello Zack," Jason said.

"Oh, you're back with us," Zack said. He stared at Jason a long moment.
"One of these days," he said with a wry grin, "you're not going to make
it."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bob Herschell came out of the magnificent crystal palace that was
U-Live-It's New York feelie showcase and searched the garden plaza. "Cy!
I thought I'd find you here wringing your hands."

"We should never have premiered cold like this," Lemson complained. "We
should have at least had one private running for the reviewers. We
wouldn't be dangling like this."

"Stop worrying, Cy. A first night lets the critics get caught up in the
excitement. And even if they go sick and thumb down 'Land' it won't
stand against the top power voodoo job the publicity gang is saturating
the public with. And bigger than all the critics is Jason Rowe. He's
filled six thousand couches in there with the biggest voluntary
celebrity turnout for any preem."

"Jason Rowe," Lemson sighed, rolling supplicating eyes heavenward. "He
jeopardized a ten million dollar feelie; almost gave _me_ heart failure
when he had that heart attack."

"Cy, for the sake of the studio don't let people hear you say that. It's
not true! It wasn't a heart attack. He just played the death scene too
fully. You know how deep he goes into a role. That's what makes him the
world's greatest actor."

"I don't care what you call it," Lemson said heatedly, "the guy's heart
_stopped_ and it was only because of Zack's alertness that they got to
him in time. He almost died. I don't want to be ghoulish about it, Bob,
but the studio's putting a lot of time, money and sweat into making that
boy a star--"

"Nobody's making him a star," Herschell cut in, "he was born one."

Herschell had spoken with such honest emphasis that Lemson replied,
greatly subdued, "Okay, okay, but we have ourselves a pretty shaky
investment if every time he dies in a feelie he's liable to really go
over the edge."

"Zack thinks he can work out a receptor circuit to keep it from
happening again. Sort of a subliminal survival monitor that won't show
on the strip."

Lemson looked nervously at the theater entrance. "They should be coming
out soon," he muttered.

"Ten minutes yet," Herschell assured him.

Inside the shining pleasure dome, six thousand Jed Carters lay dying on
an afternoon hillside. The war was gone to another hill and he was alone
now with the grass wind and the small summer sounds of the earth. His
pain was a soft ache like a child's secret tears and his life was
slipping reluctantly from him in a trickling red ribbon. He heard the
sweet sound of a bird and the song of it wrung his heart. There were so
many songs yet unheard, so much soft laughter unborn, so many caresses
yet to be shared; a lifetime of summers, waiting, now never to be
filled. His heart cried at the thought of them.

The sun warmed him like a great golden lover and filled him with an
ineffable sadness for the bright days to come that would never be his.

And now at the last he thought of her. His heart ached for her, craving
one more of those lost mornings when he had awakened in the dawn at her
sleeping side and with his eyes happily loved her sweet slumbering face,
haloed by the marvel of her wheat hair catching the first glints of the
new sun.

In a last languid movement he turned on his back and opened his eyes to
the bright sky. He felt her stir. Her arm brushed him and the vibrancy
of her being sang through him. She opened her eyes and her love smiled
out at him. The smile brightened her face until it spread across the sky
and grew brilliant like the sun. She reached out for him. He sighed with
a great breath of quiet happiness because she was the sun smiling down
at him and at last he rose up and went to meet her.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It's time they were coming out," Herschell said. "Let's get back."

They entered the lobby, deserted except for a scattering of ushers, and
waited.

"Why aren't they coming out?" Lemson asked, more of the emptiness than
of his companion. "It's ten minutes since the scheduled ending. Do you
suppose the projection's broken down or maybe--"

"Relax, Cy, you know these preems. Always a bag full of delays, starting
with late VIP arrivals."

"There've been no delays. They started on time--"

The sound of sirens spiralled out of the night and whirled the two men
around to face the entrance. Lights raced frantically across the plaza
as a dozen turbine vehicles whined to a stop in front. More were
arriving. Medical teams and squads of policemen burst through the doors.
They ran past the slow float shafts to the elevators.

"What's happened?" Lemson screamed. "What's going on?" He tugged at a
uniformed sleeve but was thrust aside by the running man.

Herschell and Lemson followed, half running, to the elevators. Herschell
shouted an inquiry at a cluster of policemen surging into one of the
cars but the nearest grim-visaged man almost angrily waved them away
from the door as it closed in their faces.

"The manager's office!" Herschell cried and they ran for a private
elevator. Seconds later they dashed into the manager's office.

"He's not here," Lemson wailed.

Herschell snapped a switch on the desk and a harried, shocked face
appeared on the viphone screen. "Mr. Herschell! Mr. Lemson!"

"Pete!" Herschell exclaimed, "why've we got the police and medicos? An
accident?"

The man's lips quivered as he spoke. "A lot of the patrons are dead."

"WHAT?!! How many?"

"Don't know ... yet ... maybe all," Pete said brokenly.

"What in heaven's name happened?"

"The death scene ... Rowe killed them ..."

"You're crazy!" Herschell shouted. "It's impossible! The projector's
triggered to shut off if the patron's in danger."

"What everybody thought," Pete said, "but the house doc said something
about the projectors being keyed to extreme agitation; racing pulse,
increased blood pressure. That didn't happen here. The people weren't
alarmed. Nothing to trigger a shutoff. Doc said the death was ...
was ..." Pete turned away, trying to hold back tears.

Herschell kept himself from shouting. "Was what?"

"... was ... sweet ... beautiful ..." Pete's shoulders shook with a spasm
of sobs that muffled some of his words, "... should be ... here ... see
it ... kids too ... rows and rows of ... people ... all smiling ..."


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Science Fiction Stories_
    September 1959. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
    the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling
    and typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Premiere, by Richard Sabia

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PREMIERE ***

***** This file should be named 24865.txt or 24865.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/4/8/6/24865/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
