The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Great Potlatch Riots, by Allen Kim Lang

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Great Potlatch Riots

Author: Allen Kim Lang

Release Date: March 18, 2008 [EBook #24864]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GREAT POTLATCH RIOTS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









 THE GREAT
 POTLATCH RIOTS

 By ALLEN KIM LANG


 _Oh, leave it to the bureaucrats and
 they'll figure out new ways to make
 you buy more and more.... But there
 was only one way the poor consumer
 could rise up in his wrath._


"I've sweated for months over the plans for this campaign," Captain
Wesley Winfree told the Major. "Just nod, sir; that's all I ask; and
I'll throw my forces into the field."

"I admire your audacity, Winfree," Major Stanley Dampfer said, "but
don't you think we'd be wise to consolidate our current positions before
launching a fresh offensive?"

Captain Winfree, straight in his scarlet-trimmed winter greens, tapped
the toe of one boot with his swagger-stick. "With all respect, sir," he
said, "I feel that if we do no more than hold the line, we're lending
moral comfort to the foes of prosperity. Attack! That's my battle-plan,
sir. Attack! And attack again!"

Major Dampfer, seated behind Winfree's desk, stretched out his legs and
sighed. "You younger officers, men who've never in your lives tasted
defeat, are an inspiration and a trial to us old field-graders," he
said. "Captain, a project that failed could set your District back
fifteen years."

"I realize that, sir," Winfree said. "I'm placing my career in the
balance. If I attempt this, and goof, ship me to the sticks, Major. I'd
rather spend the rest of my BSG years as a corporal, a simple Potlatch
Observer in a downstate village, than never to have embarked on this
campaign."

"Young Napoleon must have been very like you, Winfree," Major Dampfer
mused. "Very well, lad. Brief me."

"Yes, sir!" Captain Winfree marched over to the giant calendar that
covered one wall of his office and tapped his stick against the three
dates circled in red. "We've established this triangle of
strong-points," he said. "We control the second Sunday in May and the
third Sunday in June in addition to our first and most vital holding,
the twenty-fifth of December. I regard these three victories, sir, as
only beachheads, only the softening-up phases of a still greater
campaign. We must press on toward Total Prosperity."

"How, Winfree?" Major Dampfer asked.

"By adding three hundred and sixty-two days a year to our laurels, sir,"
Winfree said, sweeping his swagger-stick across the face of the
calendar. "My plan is to make every consumer's birthday a Gratuity Day
for each of his Nearest-and-Dearest."

Major Dampfer sat up straight. "Captain," he said softly, "this is
Thinking Big. This could lend billions a year to the Gross National
Product. It could mean a major break-through on the Prosperity front.
Are you really proposing that each consumer be required to give birthday
presents to the same people, and on the same scale, as he now gives Xmas
Gratuities?"

"Precisely, sir," Captain Winfree said. "My staff has in the files the
birthdate of every consumer in the District. Enforcement of the new
quotas I propose will be no more difficult than the old: the same scale
of fines for non-compliance, the same terms of imprisonment for repeated
offenses will be imposed. The dates-of-destruction to be marked on
Birthday Gratuities will be set as the next Potlatch Day, plus one year.
Merchandise will be marked with the year-date precisely as is now done
for Xmas, Dad's Day, and Mom's Day gifts. Birthday-cards will be
addressed and sent from this office, just like Xmas cards."

       *       *       *       *       *

Major Dampfer stood and drew on his uniform gauntlets. "May I assume
that you've covered the field public-relations-wise?" he asked.

"Yes, sir," Captain Winfree said. "I've composed a slogan for this
year's drive in my District: 'Make the Magi Come the Year
'Round--Birthday Gratuities for All!'"

"It sings, Winfree," Major Dampfer said. "I like it. Captain, you have
my nod. Carry on with this program. If you win the battle for this
District, I'll get you a desk in Washington and Divisional Command;
you'll help us tailor your plan to fit the entire nation."

"Thank you, sir," Winfree said, grinning. "I won't disappoint you."

"You'd best not," the Major said. He paused by the office door. "Captain
Winfree, the word is on the grapevine that you're planning to marry one
of the corporals in your office. That right?"

"Yes, sir," Winfree said. "Peggy and I have set the wedding for
twenty-three December, the day before Potlatch. We'd be delighted
should your duties allow you to attend, Major."

"I'll be there," Major Dampfer promised. "And as a little gift from the
Bureau of Seasonal Gratuities, Winfree, I order you to move out on your
new campaign that same day: twenty-three December." He raised a
gauntleted hand. "No, Captain! Don't protest that you'll be needed here.
Your work is strategy, not tactics. Your plans can be implemented by
your staff while you're off on your honeymoon."

"Whatever you say, sir," Winfree said.

"I'd be further gratified," the Major continued, "if you'd hold the
ceremony right here in your Headquarters Building. We of the BSG must
establish some traditions, Winfree; the other Services have a
century-and-a-half's lead on us in that field. So, if the lovely
corporal approves, we'll make yours a proper military wedding."

"All this is very good of you, sir," Captain Winfree said. "I'm certain
Peggy will be pleased."

"Good!" Major Dampfer said. "I'll handle all the details. Winfree,
you've got the quality we used to know as Old-Fashioned Intestinal
Fortitude, back in the day when a spade was called a spade and no
apologies about it. We need more men like you in the Bureau." He snapped
a salute. "Carry on, Captain; and Happy Potlatch!"

"A Very Happy Potlatch to you, sir!" Winfree said, tossing back the
salute. "And a Merry Xmas!"

Captain Winfree walked to the big window in the outer office to watch
Major Dampfer driven off in his sergeant-chauffeured, scarlet-and-green
BSG Rolls limousine. Then he about-faced without warning to glare at his
little command, the eight non-coms, the twenty-seven Other Ranks, the
four young lieutenants. They all sat silent, watching him as though
waiting for confirmation of an unpleasant rumor. Not a file-cabinet
stood open, not a typewriter was moving. "Listen, you people," Winfree
growled, pointing his swagger-stick like a weapon, not sparing even
Corporal Peggy MacHenery his anger; "We've got a Potlatch Day coming up,
the biggest ever. Now get on the ball, dammit! I don't want to see one
of you stopping for breath again till Xmas Day." The lieutenants and
sergeants flushed; the girl privates jumped their fingers onto
typewriter keys. "Corporal MacHenery," Winfree said, "bring your notepad
to my office."

       *       *       *       *       *

Peggy MacHenery, Corporal, Bureau of Seasonal Gratuities, followed her
commanding officer and husband-designate into his office. "Close the
door, Corporal," Winfree said. Peggy did so, and took her chair next to
his desk, the pad open on her knee and her fountain pen at the ready.
"No dictation," Captain Winfree said. "Please forgive me for taking
valuable official time for a personal matter, Corporal; especially
after that little display of tyranny I just put on out there. Peggy,
Major Dampfer has ordered us to hold our wedding here at District
Headquarters. He'll bring in a transport loaded with BSG brass, fly in a
band to give us a send-off with pibrochs and marches and double-flams;
and he'll probably set up an arch of sabers for us to parade through. Do
you mind all this very much, Peggy?"

       *       *       *       *       *

She snapped her notepad shut. "Daddy will be furious," she said.

"Your dad is already so worked up about your marrying me, a BSG-man,
that a little extra anger won't even show," Winfree said. "I'm convinced
that he's teaching me fencing only in hopes I'll have a fatal accident."

"Nonsense!" Peggy said. She tossed her notebook on the desk and stood to
take Winfree's hand. "Don't make Daddy out a monster, Wes. About the
other thing, the military wedding, I don't care. I'd marry you in a
beer-barrel, if you wanted it that way."

Captain Winfree took the girl's free hand. "Peggy," he said, "you're the
greatest! Now the good news. Major Dampfer has approved my plans for
instituting Birthday Gratuity Quotas in this District. Aren't you glad
for me?"

"Glad?" Peggy demanded, pulling away. "Wes, do you think the consumers
of this District will put up with another invasion of their pocketbooks,
let alone their private sentiments?"

"Peggy, if you're going to gripe every time the Bureau raises the quotas
a notch," Winfree said, "you don't belong in that uniform you're
wearing."

"Want me to take it off?" Peggy challenged, reaching for the top button
of her blouse.

"No, dammit!" Winfree said. "But if you're going to discuss the
propriety of every decision I make, please have the grace to wait till
we're outside District Headquarters to do it."

"Yes, sir; thank you, sir," Peggy said. She saluted. "Is there anything
more you want to chew me out about, sir?"

Winfree saluted back, then growled at himself for the reflex. "Woman,"
he said, "once we're married I want to see your request for discharge
lying here on my desk. How the devil can an officer run an organization
when one of the enlisted personnel, the corporal he's in love with,
persists in subordination?"

"I can't quit," Peggy said. "We'll need my salary, Wes, if only to pay
off our BSG quotas. What with buying Xmas presents, gifts for Mom's Day
and Pop's Day, and sending Birthday Gratuities to every name on our
combined Nearest-and-Dearest lists, we'll be living on rice and soybeans
till you make Light Colonel. Quit? Wes, if you expect to eat regular
after we're married, you'd best put me in for sergeant's stripes."

"Please, Peggy," Winfree asked. "We'll discuss this all tonight, off
duty, if I survive your father's swordplay. For now, please let letters
out to all District wholesalers, telling them of the Birthday Quotas and
the new dating procedures. Have one of the lieutenants open the _secret_
files for you--it's all under 'Operation Nativity.' You can get at it
right away."

"Very well, Captain, sir," Peggy said. "Happy Potlatch, sir." She
about-faced and marched out, banging the office door behind her.

"Happy Potlatch be damned!" Captain Winfree said, flinging his
swagger-stick toward the calendar.

       *       *       *       *       *

The MacHenery home was all gables and pinnacles and spooled
porch-pillars, very like an enormous wedding-cake, every horizontal
surface now frosted with a thin layer of snow. Captain Winfree tugged
off his gauntlets, rang the bell, and stood straighter than usual to
withstand the hostile inspection of Kevin MacHenery, Peggy's father.

Mr. MacHenery opened the door. Captain Winfree, although retaining his
smile of greeting, groaned inwardly. MacHenery was wearing his canvas
fencing outfit, flat-soled shoes, and carried a foil in one hand. "My
you are a gorgeous sight, all Kelly-green and scarlet piping, like a
tropical bird that's somehow strayed into the snowfields," MacHenery
said. "Do come in, Captain, and warm your feathers."

"Thank you, sir," Winfree said, brushing the snow from his cap. He
peeled off his overcoat and hung it on the hall tree, sticking his
swagger-stick in one of its pockets. "Peggy busy?" he asked, hoping that
her appearance would preclude his being given another unsolicited
fencing-lesson.

"After having spent two hours in the bathroom with a curry-comb and a
bottle of wave-set," MacHenery said, "my daughter has finally got down
to work in the kitchen. We have time for an engagement at steel in the
parlor, if you'd care to refine your style, Captain."

"Just as you say, sir," Winfree said.

"Your politeness offends me, Wes," Kevin MacHenery complained, handing
him a foil and a wire-mesh mask. "Slip off your shoes. It's a terrible
burden you are laying on the shoulders of an aging man, being so
well-spoken when he likes nothing more than an argument. Now assume the
_on guard_ position, Wesley."

Winfree obediently placed his feet at right angles, raised his foil, and
"sat down," assuming the bent-leg position and feeling his leg-muscles,
still sore from his last session with MacHenery, begin to complain.
"You're holding your foil like a flyswatter," MacHenery said. "Here,
like this!"

"None of that, Daddy," Peggy said, appearing from the kitchen. "I'll
not have you two sitting down to eat all sweaty and out of breath, like
last time Wes was over here."

"She treats me like a backward child," MacHenery said. He took a bottle
from a shelf and poured generous dollops of Scotch into two glasses, one
of which he handed to Winfree. "Inasmuch as I disapprove of the coming
season," he said, "I'll offer you no toast, Captain."

"You don't care even for Xmas?" Winfree asked in a tone of mild
reproach.

"Ex-mas?" MacHenery demanded. "What the devil is this nor-fish-nor-fowl
thing you call Ex-mas? Some new festival, perhaps, celebrated by
carillons of cash-register chimes?"

"_Christmas_, if you prefer, sir," Winfree said. "We in the Bureau of
Seasonal Gratuities get used to using the other name. We use the word so
much in writing that cutting it from nine letters to four saves some
thirty thousand dollars annually, in this District alone."

"That's grand," MacHenery said. He sat down with his whiskey. "Simply
grand."

"We could drink to a Happy Potlatch," Captain Winfree suggested.

"I'd sooner toast my imminent death by tetanus," MacHenery said.

"I'd like to taste this stuff," Winfree said. "Let's compromise. Can we
drink to Peggy?"

"Accepted," MacHenery said, raising his glass. "To my Peggy--our Peggy."
He gave the whiskey the concentration it deserved. Then, "You know,
Wesley," he said, "if you weren't in the BSG I could like you real well.
I'd rejoice at your becoming my son-in-law. Too bad that you wear the
enemy uniform."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The BSG is hardly an enemy," Winfree said. "It's been an American
institution for a long time. This is excellent whiskey."

"We'll test a second sample, to see whether its quality stands up
through the bottle," MacHenery suggested. "For all we know, they may be
putting the best on top." He poured them each another. "Yes, Wesley, the
Bureau of Seasonal Gratuities has been with the American consumer quite
a while. Twenty years it'll be, come next Potlatch Day. You were brought
up in the foul tradition, Wes. You don't know what our country was like
in the good old days, when Christmas was spelled with a _C_ instead of
an _X_."

"I know that a paltry twenty billion dollars a year were spent on
Xmas--sorry, sir--on Christmas Gratuities, back before my Bureau came on
the scene to triple that figure, to bring us all greater prosperity."

"Your Bureau brought us the stink of burning," MacHenery said. "It
brought us the Potlatch Pyres."

"Yes, Potlatch!" Captain Winfree said. "Potlatch Pyres and Potlatch
Day--childhood's brightest memory. Ah, those smells from the fire! The
incense of seared varnish; the piny smoke from building-blocks tossed
into the flames; the thick wool stinks of dated shirts and cowboy-suits,
gasoline-soaked and tossed into the Potlatch Pyre. My little brother,
padded fat in his snowsuit, toddling up to the fire to toss in his dated
sled, then scampering back from the sparks while Mom and Dad smiled at
him from the porch, cuddling hot cups of holiday ponchero in their
hands."

"Seduction of the innocents," MacHenery said. "Training the babes to be
wastrels."

"We loved it," Winfree insisted. "True, the little girls might cry as
they handed a dated doll to the BSG-man; while he prepared it for suttee
with a wash of gasoline and set it into the fire; but little girls, as I
suppose you know, relish occasions for weeping. They cheered up mighty
quick, believe me, when the thermite grenades were set off, filling the
night air with the electric smell of molten metal, burning dated clocks
and desk-lamps, radios and humidors, shoes and ships and carving-sets;
burning them down to smoke and golden-glowing puddles under the ashes of
the Potlatch Pyre. Then the fireworks, Mr. MacHenery. The fireworks! The
BSG-man touching a flaming torch to the fuses of the mortars; a sizzle
and a burst; the Japanese star-shells splitting the sky, splashing
across the night's ceiling, scattering from their pods, blossoming into
Queen Anne's Lace in a dozen colors of fire."

"Fire and destruction," MacHenery said. "There's your holiday for
children--fire and destruction!"

"You missed it, sir," Winfree said. "You don't understand. Potlatch is
a wonderful day for children, a glorious introduction to the science of
economics. The boys light Roman candles, shooting crimson and orchid
and brass-flamed astonishers into the clouds. A soft fog of snow makes
fuzzy smears of the pinwheels, of the children racing, sparklers in
both hands, across the frozen lawn. Dad lights the strings of
cannon-crackers--at our house they used to dangle from a wire strung
across the porch, like clusters of giant phlox--and they convulse into
life, jumping and banging and scattering their red skins onto the snow,
filling the air with the spice of gunpowder.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The high-school kids come home from their Potlatch Parties ..."

"Wreckage and mayhem," MacHenery grunted. "We used to throw the same
kind of parties when I was a tad, but they were against the law, back
then. We called 'em chicken-runs."

"But nowadays, sir, those Potlatch Parties contribute to the general
prosperity," Winfree explained. "Used-car lots used to border all the
downtown streets, anchors on progress. Now those dated cars are
smashed, and used for scrap. The high-school drivers work off their
aggressions ramming them together. And there's no mayhem, Mr. MacHenery;
the BSG-man assigned to Potlatch Parties strap the kids in safe and make
sure their crash-helmets fit tight. It's all clean fun."

"Morally," MacHenery said, "Potlatch Parties are still chicken-runs."

       *       *       *       *       *

Peggy came back, as sleek and crisp as though cooking were an expensive
sort of beauty treatment. "Supper will be ready in five minutes," she
said. "If you tigers will wash up ..."

"We'll drink up, first," her father said. "This man of yours has been
feeding me BSG propaganda. I'm not sure I have any appetite left."

"What started you hating the Bureau of Seasonal Gratuities, Mr.
MacHenery?" Winfree said.

MacHenery poured them each a drink. "You ever read Suetonius, Wes?" he
asked.

"No, sir."

"Yours is a generation of monoglots," MacHenery sighed. "It figures,
though. There's no profit in having today's youth read the clinical
record of another civilization that died of self-indulgence, that went
roistering to its doom in a carnival of bloat."

"Doom?" Winfree asked.

"Doom richly deserved," MacHenery said. "Old Suetonius describes, for
example, an instrument that accompanied dinner-parties during the reigns
of the last few Caesars. It was a device that accomplished, two thousand
years ago, the function of our proud Bureau of Seasonal Gratuities. A
feather, my boy. A simple goose-quill."

"I don't understand," Winfree said.

"I'd be hurt if you did, Captain," MacHenery said. "I've set my mind on
explaining the point. Now you see, Wes, the late Caesars were pretty
good consumers of everything but petroleum, we having that edge on them.
They spread a mighty fine table. A gourmet would bring to Rome caviar
from the Caucasus, peaches from Majorca, and, for all I know, kippers
from Britain. Picture it, Wesley: cherries served in golden bowls,
heaped on the snow trotted down from mountain-tops by marathons of
slaves. A dish called The Shield of Minerva was one of their greatest
delights; this being an Irish stew compounded of lamprey-milt,
pike-livers, flamingo-tongues, and the tiny, tasty brains of pheasants
and peacocks; eaten while viewing the floor-show of strip-teasing
Circassian girls or--Galba's invention, this--elephants walking
tight-rope. Grand, Wes. No meals like that at the supermarket; no shows
like that even on the television."

"But the feather?" Winfree prompted.

"Ah, yes," MacHenery said. "The moment our noble Roman had eaten his
fill he'd pick up the feather next to his plate and, excusing himself,
adjourn to the adjoining vomitorium. A few tickles of the palate, and
his first meal would be only a lovely memory. He'd saunter back to his
bench by the table again, ready to set to with another helping of
Minerva's Shield."

"Disgusting," Winfree said.

"Yes, indeed," MacHenery agreed, smiling and fitting his fingertips
together. "Now attend my simile, Captain. Unlike those feathered Romans
of the Decadence, we moderns settle for one meal at a sitting, and let
it digest in peace. We have instead our more sophisticated greeds,
whetted by subtle persuasions and an assurance that it's really quite
moral to ransom our future for today's gimmicks."

"Prosperity requires the cooperation of every citizen," Captain Winfree
said, quoting an early slogan of the BSG.

"Your artificial prosperity requires us, the moment we're sated with
chrome chariots and miracle-fiber dressing-gowns and electronic magics,
the minute our children have toys enough to last them through the age of
franchise, to take in hand the feather forced upon us by regulation of
the Bureau of Seasonal Gratuities and visit the parish Potlatch Pyre,
our modern vomitorium, to spew up last year's dainties to make
belly-room for a new lot," MacHenery said.

"Daddy!" Peggy MacHenery protested from the living-room doorway. "What
sort of table-talk is that?"

"Truth is the sweetest sauce, Peggy," MacHenery said, getting up from
his chair. "What delights have you cooked up for us, child?"

"Your favorite dish, Daddy," Peggy said, grinning at him. "Peacock
brains on toast."

       *       *       *       *       *

The next two weeks were too busy for Captain Winfree to partner Kevin
MacHenery on the fencing-mat. He was double-busy, in fact; planning the
biggest Potlatch Day in twenty years at the same time he started the
wheels of his project to make birthdays Gratuity Days for every consumer
in his District.

The girls, assisted by two of the male sergeants, had decorated the
District Headquarters till it glittered like a child's dream of the
North Pole. Against one wall they'd placed the Xmas tree, its branches
bearing dozens of dancing elves, Japanese swordsmen, marching squads of
BSG-recruits, prancing circus-ponies; all watch-work figures busy with
movement, flashing with microscopic lights, humming little melodies that
matched their motions. A giant replica of the Bureau's cap-emblem--the
Federal eagle clutching between his talons a banderole bearing the
motto, _'Tis More Blessed to Give Than Receive_--had been mounted on the
center wall, the place of honor. Beneath the eagle stood a bandstand
draped in bunting, ready to accommodate the Bureau of Seasonal
Gratuities Brass-Band-and-Glee-Club, the members of which were to fly in
from Washington to grace the bridal day with epithalamiums and martial
song.

The big work, the eight-hours-a-day and after-supper-overtime work, was
the preparation for Potlatch Day, the festival that meant to the BSG
what April Fifteenth means to the Internal Revenue Service. Cases of
fireworks piled up in the brick warehouse next door to Headquarters.
Sawdust-packed thermite grenades were stacked right up to the perforated
pipes of the sprinkler system. _No Smoking_ sign blossomed a hundred
yards on every side. The blacklists, naming consumers who'd withheld
dated gifts from the Potlatch Pyres of earlier years, were brought up to
date and distributed to the Reserve BSG Officers in each township of
Winfree's District. These holdouts, it was safe to assume, would be
under surveillance on Potlatch Day. Cold-eyed sergeants and lieutenants
would make note of the material each of them consigned to the flames,
and would cross-check their notes with Nearest-and-Dearest lists to make
sure that all post-dated Mom's Day and Dad's Day gratuities, all of last
Xmas's gifts, had been destroyed as required by BSG ordinance.

Meanwhile letters piled into Captain Winfree's office, thousands of them
each time the Post Office truck stopped outside Headquarters. Several of
these were penned in a brownish stuff purported to be their authors'
lifeblood; and all voiced indignation against Schedule 121B, Table 12,
which set minimum levels of cost for the birthday gratuities they'd have
to give each of the fifteen persons on their Nearest-and-Dearest lists.
Hundreds of protests were printed in the vox populi columns of District
newspapers, recommending every printable form of violence against agents
of the Bureau. BSG practice was to regard with benign eye public outcry
of this sort. No consumer in Winfree's District, immersed as he was in
the debate over Birthday Gratuity Minima, could possibly plead ignorance
should he be apprehended in violation of these new regulations.

       *       *       *       *       *

Finally, it was two days before Xmas, Potlatch Day Minus One.
Phone-calls had rippled out from District Headquarters, calling all BSG
Reservists to the colors, assigning them to Potlatch Duty in the
townships or patrol in the city; telling each officer and non-com where
and when to submit his requisition for pyrotechnical devices, gasoline,
thermite bombs, and pads of BSG Form No. 217-C, "Incident of Consumer
Non-Compliance." And the day was even more than this. It was the day
Captain Wesley Winfree was to wed Corporal Margaret MacHenery in the
sight of God, man, and the glitteringest crowd of BSG brass ever
assembled outside Washington.

By noon the typewriters in Headquarters were covered and shoved with
their desks behind folding screens hung with pine-boughs. Every wheel in
the District motor pool was on the highway from the airport, shuttling
in the wedding-party. The bride, closeted in an anteroom with a gaggle
of envious bachelor-girls, was dressing herself in winter greens, her
chevrons brilliant against her sleeves. Peggy had pinned a tiny
poinsettia to her lapel; strictly against Regulations; but who'd have
the heart to reprimand so lovely a bride? The minister who was to
perform the wedding, a young captain-chaplain of BSG, paced amongst the
hidden desks, memorizing the greetings he'd composed to precede the
formal words of wedding. The guests came laughing through a corridor of
potted pines into the District Headquarters, where they were greeted by
the BSG Band-and-Glee-Club's rendition of the Bureau's official anthem,
"I'm Dreaming of a White Potlatch." As though it had been arranged by
Washington, snow had indeed begun to fall; and the tiers of overcoats
racked in the outer hall were beaded with melted flakes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The groom, wearing his dress greens--the winter uniform worn with white
shirt and a scarlet bow-tie--was still trapped behind his desk, hardly
conscious of the joyful noises from beyond the door. "They haven't
shown?" he bellowed into the telephone. "Don't fret your head about it,
Sergeant. Those Reservists will damned well be on duty tomorrow morning
or we'll have their cans in a courtroom before dark." Slam! An anxious
girl Pfc tiptoed in. "Sir, a consumer's delegation wishes to speak with
you about the new Birthday Quotas."

"Tell them they're stuck with it," Winfree snapped. "Hand these around
that delegation, Soldier," he said, shoving a stack of Schedules 1219B
across his desk toward the girl. "Tell that bunch of complainers I'll
keep this District's economy healthy if I have to jail every consumer in
it."

The phone rang again. "It's me, Wes, Peggy."

"Darling, I'm busy," Winfree said.

"Didn't you write our wedding-date on your appointment list?" she asked.
"It'll only take a quarter-hour."

"Don't marry anyone else," Winfree said. "I'll be right out." He hung up
the phone and stood at the mirror in his closet to check his uniform.
Then he picked up his silver-trimmed dress swagger-stick and marched out
into the main office to meet the chaplain, and his wife.

Major Stanley Dampfer, glorious in his dress greens, a Sam Bowie belt
equating his belly and supporting the side-arm holstered by one big hip,
slapped Winfree on the back as he entered the hall. "At ease!" the
Major shouted, then glanced contritely toward the two BSG colonels who'd
been talking the loudest. "Gentlemen, ladies: I want to present the
founder of this feast, the brightest star in the Bureau's firmament, the
young genius of Birthday Gratuity Quotas. I refer, of course, to Captain
Wesley Winfree!"

[Applause, shouts, a few ribald remarks from the officers nearest the
bar]

"I just want to tell you all," the Major went on, his arm heavy across
Winfree's unwilling shoulders, "before I relinquish this fine young
officer to his new commander, a corporal ..."

[Laughter]

"... that here's a man who's going places. Look well at Captain
Winfree's face, friends. You will see it yet on the cover of _Time_,
above a pair of stars."

[Applause]

       *       *       *       *       *

The Major freed Captain Winfree, the guests settled down into their
folding-chairs, and the chaplain opened his BSG _Book of Authorized
Ceremonies_. He and the affianced couple stood alone together in a
moment of silence. He opened the service. "Dearly beloved, we are
gathered together here ...

"... Margaret, wilt thou have this Man to thy wedded husband ... so long
as ye both shall live? ... by virtue of the authority vested in me by
the Corps of Chaplains, Bureau of Seasonal Gratuities, I pronounce that
you are Man and Wife. Amen, and Congratulations!"

The first wedded kiss, and the stag-line demanding its similar
perquisite. Kevin MacHenery seized his son-in-law's right hand. "I wish
you both fifty happy years, Wes," he said. "I hope you'll see the light
soon, and spend most of those years in decent mufti." Major Dampfer
shouldered Mr. MacHenery aside to tug Winfree and his new wife toward
the mountain of gifts, covered like a giant's corpse with a sheet,
standing by the base of the Xmas tree. The Major triumphantly pulled a
ripcord, and the sheet dropped away. Beneath it were dozens of boxes and
bundles and bottles, wrapped in scarlet and green and silver and gold.
"Open them!" some guest prompted from the end of the hall.

"Why open them?" Corporal Mrs. Peggy Winfree asked. "Anyone got a match?
We'll have our Potlatch Pyre right here and now, burn them right off
instead of waiting a year."

"The lady jests," Major Dampfer assumed. "Wedding-gifts, Corporal,
aren't subject to Potlatching."

"Goody," Peggy said.

"I'll have some of the enlisted guests carry these gratuities out to
your car," the Major said. "You can unwrap them during your honeymoon."
He chuckled.

Towing his bride with his left hand, accepting handshakes with his
right, Captain Winfree shouldered his way through the mob of brass and
chevrons to the door. His car, adorned with a _Just Married_ sign that
completely obscured the rear window, trailing strings of shoes and empty
milk-tins, stood at the end of a corridor formed by two face-to-face
ranks of BSG Officer-Candidates. The OCS-men wore dress greens and
Academy helmets, and about the waist of each hung a saber. Consumers
stood gray and inconspicuous behind the two rows of uniformed men,
silent, unsmiling, like onlookers at an accident. Captain Winfree looked
over this civilian crowd. Each person wore, pinned to a lapel, perched
in a hatbrim, or worn like a corsage, a small white feather. "We'd best
hurry, Peggy," he said, urging her toward the gantlet.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Officer-Candidates, on a signal from Major Dampfer, snicked their
ceremonial sabers from their scabbards and presented them, blade-tip to
blade-tip, as an archway. The BSG Band-and-Glee-Club, playing and
singing, "Potlatch Is Comin' to Town," stood in the doorway. Captain
Winfree, clasping Peggy's gloved hand tightly, led her through the
saber-roofed aisleway as rapidly as he could. "What's the rush, Wes?"
she asked. "We'll get married only once, and I'd like to see the
ceremony well enough to be able to describe it to our eventual children,
when they ask me what it was like."

Winfree opened the door of their car. "We'd better get out of here," he
said. "I smell a riot brewing; and I don't want you to have to describe
that to our children."

Peggy scooted into the car just as the District Headquarters building
burped out a giant bubble of smoke. An arm reached out to Winfree's
lapel and tugged him back from the car. "You're going nowhere, buddy," a
civilian growled at him. The man, Winfree saw, was wearing the
ubiquitous white feather in his lapel. As Winfree shook himself free
from the civilian, the arch of sabers above them collapsed. The
BSG-OCS-men were tossed about in a mob of suddenly screaming consumers,
waving their weapons as ineffectively as brooms. Fragments were spun off
the whirl of people, bits of BSG uniforms torn off their wearers and
tossed like confetti. A huge pink figure, clad in one trouser-leg and a
pair of shorts, smeared across the chest and face with soot, dashed
toward Winfree, waving a .45 pistol. "Stop this violence!" he screamed
at the consumers in his way, leveling his pistol. "Maintain the peace,
dammit! or I'll shoot!"

"That idiot!" Winfree said. He slammed the door of the car to give Peggy
a little protection, then scooped up a handful of snow from the gutter
to pound into a ball and toss like a grenade at the back of Major
Dampfer's neck. The Major's boots flew out from under him, and he
landed belly-down in the snow, burying his pistol's muzzle. The gun went
off, flinging itself like a rocket out of his hand. Winfree snatched it
up. "Blanks!" he yelled, waving the .45. "He was only going to shoot
blanks."

       *       *       *       *       *

Three more civilians, wearing the white-feather symbol on their
overcoats, advanced toward Winfree. Together, like partners in a ballet,
they bent to build snowballs, then stood and let fly. Winfree ducked,
found one of the dress sabers ignominiously sheathed in snow, and drew
it out. He retreated toward the automobile, the saber raised to protect
Peggy. "Stand back," he shouted. "I don't want to bloody-up this clean
snow."

Another mitrailleusade of snowballs connected, knocking off Winfree's
cap and sending a shower of snow down his collar. The Headquarters
building was burning so well that it served as a warming bonfire to the
tattered BSG personnel. A squad of civilian youngsters was chasing Major
Dampfer down the street, pelting the huge target of his backside with
snowballs.

The BSG Band-and-Glee-Club, covering their nakedness by pooling their
rags, were a musical rabble. Kevin MacHenery, carrying a saber captured
from one of the BSG-OCS-men, shouted to a tuba-player, the bell of whose
horn had been dimpled by a hard-cored snowball. "Play the National
Anthem," he yelled. The player, chilly and terrified, raised the
mouthpiece of the tuba to his lips and, looking fearfully about like the
target of a test-your-skill ball-throwing game, puffed out the sonorous
opening notes. One by one the other players, a flute behind an elm tree,
a trumpet hidden in the back seat of a parked limousine, a snow-damaged
snare-drum, joined in; gravitating towards one another through the
suddenly quiet crowd. Winfree, like the other men, civil and BSG, stood
at attention; but as he felt Peggy's arm slip through his he spoke out
of the corner of his mouth. "Get back to the car, Peggy," he said.
"Drive like hell out of this chivaree. I'll meet you at your dad's
place. Now git!"

"You think maybe I had my fingers crossed when I promised to have and
hold you?" she asked. "You're my man, Wes. If you get beat up, I want my
eyes blackened to match yours."

The anthem drew to a close just as a new instrument, the siren of a
firetruck, joined in. "Stop that truck!" one of the insurgent consumers
shouted. "Don't let 'em touch our fire."

       *       *       *       *       *

The mob went back into action in two task-forces; one dedicated to the
extirpation of the BSG-men currently available, the other clustered
around the firetruck, thwarting the fire-fighters' efforts to couple
their hose to the hydrant. One youngster, wearing the black leather
jacket and crash-helmet of a Potlatch Party, ran from the fireworks
warehouse with a thermite grenade. Pulling the pin, he tossed the
sputtering bomb through a window of the burning building. "Stop him!"
the white-helmeted fire-chief shouted.

"Stop him, hell!" a consumer replied. "Man, we got a rebellion going.
Don't you guys try to throw cold water on it unless you'd like to be
squirted solid ice with your own hose."

       *       *       *       *       *

The fire-chief, his hands raised in despair, turned to his colleagues.
"Stand by, boys," he said. "Nothing we can do till the cops get here to
quell this bunch."

"Pretty, isn't it?" one of the firemen remarked, dropping the canvas
hose. "We never get to see a building burn all the way. Think of all the
papers in there, file-cabinets full of government regulations, lists of
all our birthdays, quota-forms; all curling up and turning brown and
reaching the kindling point. Nice fire, Chief."

The fire-chief faced Headquarters, a new look replacing his anxiety. "It
is kind of pretty," he admitted. He turned to the consumer ringleader.
"OK with you if we throw a little water on the fireworks warehouse?" he
asked.

"Sure," the man said. "We don't want to blow up the old home-town; we
only want to put the BSG out of business." His band of consumers stepped
back from the yellow fireplug to let the firemen hook up their hoses,
toggle on the pressure, and begin playing water over the blank face of
the fireworks warehouse.

Captain Winfree was buried in hard-fisted civilians, all seemingly
intent on erasing him as the most familiar symbol of the Bureau of
Seasonal Gratuities. Winfree bobbed to the surface of the maelstrom for
a moment, waving his saber, and shouted, "MacHenery! Get these jokers
off my back before I'm knee-deep in cold meat." He thwacked another of
his assailants across the pate with the flat of his blade.

MacHenery, using his saber as a lever, pried himself a path through the
crowd. As he reached Captain Winfree, he raised his saber. The crowd
about the two men retreated. "These folks have suffered a lot from you,
Captain," MacHenery said. "Think maybe they're due to see a little
bloodshed?"

"OK by me," Winfree said, panting, "if you don't mind shedding it." He
raised his saber in salute--the only fencing-movement he'd become
proficient in--and jumped into a crouch. MacHenery closed, and the two
blades met in a clanging opening. Peggy's father, for all his handicap
of twenty years, was a fencer; Winfree, in his maiden effort as a
sabreur, used his weapon like a club. He allemanded about MacHenery, now
and then dashing in with clumsy deliveries that were always met by the
older man's blade.

Those firemen not immediately concerned with spraying the warehouse
wall mounted the racks of their truck to watch the duel. BSG-men and
-women, huddled close to the warmth of the burning building, watched
unhappily as their champion was forced to retreat before MacHenery's
technique. "He'll kill him!" Peggy shouted. She was restrained from
trying to break up the fight by two burly consumers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Winfree, trying a gambit he'd seen in one of MacHenery's books but had
never before attempted, extended his saber and flew forward toward
MacHenery in a flèche. MacHenery caught Winfree's blade on his own and
tossed it aside. He brought back his own weapon to sketch a line down
the Captain's right cheek. The scratch was pink for a moment, then it
started to bleed heavily. The crowd shouted encouragement, the
BSG-troops groaned. "Keep cool, Wes," MacHenery whispered to his
opponent as they dos-à-doed back into position. "I have to make this
look fierce or they'll insist on lynching you."

"Don't make it look too good," Winfree panted. "Cover yourself--I might
hurt you out of sheer clumsiness." His chin and throat were covered with
blood, now; blood enough to satisfy the most indignant consumer. The
moment the measure was set again, Winfree lunged, trying to slip his
blade beneath MacHenery's guard to strike his arm. His foible met the
flash of the other man's forte, and his blade bounced aside like a
sprung bow.

MacHenery slammed his saber into Winfree's, spinning the weapon out of
his hand into the crowd. He lunged then, delivering his point against
Winfree's chest. Peggy, released from her captors, burst from the crowd
to throw herself against her father. "Stop it, Daddy!" she pleaded,
"please stop!"

MacHenery raised his saber in salute. "All right, Pocahontas," he said.
"Take your John Smith home and patch up that cut. It's no worse than
what he gets shaving." He turned to the crowd, his saber still raised in
salute. "Potlatch is over forever!" he shouted.

Urged by a delegation of music-loving consumers, the tubist raised his
ravaged horn. The other members of the BSG Band-and-Glee-Club gathered
round him, all ragged, some with one eye closed by a purple fist-mark;
and they began, on the tubist's signal, "God Rest Ye Merry, Gentlemen."
The District Headquarters building, gutted, was glowing like an
abandoned fireplace. The firemen joined the singing as they coiled their
hoses. The Potlatch Riot was over.

Winfree led his wife to their car. The _Just Married_ sign was still in
place, but the car's train of shoes and milk-cans had been ripped off to
furnish ammunition in the fight. "Let's go home, Peggy," Winfree said.
"I yearn for a fireside and some privacy."

Kevin MacHenery spoke from the back seat. "You deserve them, Wes," he
said.

"What are you doing here?" Peggy demanded, twisting to face her father.
"After you cut up my Wes you should be ashamed to show us your face."

"I want to apologize for that unfortunate necessity," MacHenery said.
"But if I hadn't scratched him, Peggy-my-heart, the mob might have done
more radical surgery. I saw one consumer with a rope, trying different
knots."

"Apology accepted," Winfree said. "Now, if you don't mind, Mr.
MacHenery, Peggy and I'd like to be alone."

"Of course," MacHenery said. "First, though, I'd like to present you a
decoration to commemorate your part in this skirmish, Wes." He took the
little white feather from his hatbrim and attached it to Winfree's
tattered, blood-stained tunic.

"What's this for?" Winfree asked.

"For services rendered the Rebellion," MacHenery said. "I've often
wondered why it's only the Tom Paines and the Jeffersons who get honored
by successful rebels. There's many a revolution, Wesley, that would have
failed except for the dedicated tyranny of the men it overthrew."

"I don't understand, Daddy," Peggy protested.

"Wes will probably explain to you sometime how he brought this all on
himself," MacHenery said, opening his door to get out. "Now I expect you
two have other things to talk about. Thank you, Captain Winfree, for
playing so excellent a George the Third to our rebellion."

"Thank you, sir," Winfree said, raising his hand in salute. "I wish you
a Merry, nine-letter Christmas."


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Science Fiction Stories_
    September 1959. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
    the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling
    and typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of Project Gutenberg's The Great Potlatch Riots, by Allen Kim Lang

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GREAT POTLATCH RIOTS ***

***** This file should be named 24864-8.txt or 24864-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/4/8/6/24864/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
