The Project Gutenberg EBook of Control Group, by Roger Dee

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Control Group

Author: Roger Dee

Release Date: March 29, 2008 [EBook #24949]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CONTROL GROUP ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









 _"Any problem posed by one group of
 human beings can be resolved by any
 other group." That's what the Handbook
 said. But did that include primitive
 humans? Or the Bees? Or a ..._


CONTROL GROUP

By ROGER DEE


The cool green disk of Alphard Six on the screen was infinitely welcome
after the arid desolation and stinking swamplands of the inner planets,
an airy jewel of a world that might have been designed specifically for
the hard-earned month of rest ahead. Navigator Farrell, youngest and
certainly most impulsive of the three-man Terran Reclamations crew,
would have set the _Marco Four_ down at once but for the greater caution
of Stryker, nominally captain of the group, and of Gibson, engineer, and
linguist. Xavier, the ship's little mechanical, had--as was usual and
proper--no voice in the matter.

"Reconnaissance spiral first, Arthur," Stryker said firmly. He chuckled
at Farrell's instant scowl, his little eyes twinkling and his naked
paunch quaking over the belt of his shipboard shorts. "Chapter One,
Subsection Five, Paragraph Twenty-seven: _No planetfall on an
unreclaimed world shall be deemed safe without proper--_"

Farrell, as Stryker had expected, interrupted with characteristic
impatience. "Do you _sleep_ with that damned Reclamations Handbook, Lee?
Alphard Six isn't an unreclaimed world--it was never colonized before
the Hymenop invasion back in 3025, so why should it be inhabited now?"

Gibson, who for four hours had not looked up from his interminable chess
game with Xavier, paused with a beleaguered knight in one blunt brown
hand.

"No point in taking chances," Gibson said in his neutral baritone. He
shrugged thick bare shoulders, his humorless black-browed face unmoved,
when Farrell included him in his scowl. "We're two hundred twenty-six
light-years from Sol, at the old limits of Terran expansion, and there's
no knowing what we may turn up here. Alphard's was one of the first
systems the Bees took over. It must have been one of the last to be
abandoned when they pulled back to 70 Ophiuchi."

"And I think _you_ live for the day," Farrell said acidly, "when we'll
stumble across a functioning dome of live, buzzing Hymenops. Damn it,
Gib, the Bees pulled out a hundred years ago, before you and I were
born--neither of us ever saw a Hymenop, and never will!"

"But I saw them," Stryker said. "I fought them for the better part of
the century they were here, and I learned there's no predicting nor
understanding them. We never knew why they came nor why they gave up and
left. How can we know whether they'd leave a rear-guard or booby trap
here?"

He put a paternal hand on Farrell's shoulder, understanding the younger
man's eagerness and knowing that their close-knit team would have been
the more poorly balanced without it.

"Gib's right," he said. He nearly added _as usual_. "We're on rest leave
at the moment, yes, but our mission is still to find Terran colonies
enslaved and abandoned by the Bees, not to risk our necks and a valuable
Reorientations ship by landing blind on an unobserved planet. We're too
close already. Cut in your shields and find a reconnaissance spiral,
will you?"

Grumbling, Farrell punched coordinates on the Ringwave board that lifted
the _Marco Four_ out of her descent and restored the bluish enveloping
haze of her repellors.

Stryker's caution was justified on the instant. The speeding streamlined
shape that had flashed up unobserved from below swerved sharply and
exploded in a cataclysmic blaze of atomic fire that rocked the ship
wildly and flung the three men to the floor in a jangling roar of
alarms.

       *       *       *       *       *

"So the Handbook tacticians knew what they were about," Stryker said
minutes later. Deliberately he adopted the smug tone best calculated to
sting Farrell out of his first self-reproach, and grinned when the
navigator bristled defensively. "Some of their enjoinders seem a little
stuffy and obvious at times, but they're eminently sensible."

When Farrell refused to be baited Stryker turned to Gibson, who was
busily assessing the damage done to the ship's more fragile equipment,
and to Xavier, who searched the planet's surface with the ship's
magnoscanner. The _Marco Four_, Ringwave generators humming gently, hung
at the moment just inside the orbit of Alphard Six's single dun-colored
moon.

Gibson put down a test meter with an air of finality.

"Nothing damaged but the Zero Interval Transfer computer. I can realign
that in a couple of hours, but it'll have to be done before we hit
Transfer again."

       *       *       *       *       *

Stryker looked dubious. "What if the issue is forced before the ZIT unit
is repaired? Suppose they come up after us?"

"I doubt that they can. Any installation crudely enough equipped to
trust in guided missiles is hardly likely to have developed efficient
space craft."

Stryker was not reassured.

"That torpedo of theirs was deadly enough," he said. "And its nature
reflects the nature of the people who made it. Any race vicious enough
to use atomic charges is too dangerous to trifle with." Worry made
comical creases in his fat, good-humored face. "We'll have to find out
who they are and why they're here, you know."

"They can't be Hymenops," Gibson said promptly. "First, because the Bees
pinned their faith on Ringwave energy fields, as we did, rather than on
missiles. Second, because there's no dome on Six."

"There were three empty domes on Five, which is a desert planet,"
Farrell pointed out. "Why didn't they settle Six? It's a more habitable
world."

Gibson shrugged. "I know the Bees always erected domes on every planet
they colonized, Arthur, but precedent is a fallible tool. And it's even
more firmly established that there's no possibility of our rationalizing
the motivations of a culture as alien as the Hymenops'--we've been over
that argument a hundred times on other reclaimed worlds."

"But this was never an unreclaimed world," Farrell said with the faint
malice of one too recently caught in the wrong. "Alphard Six was
surveyed and seeded with Terran bacteria around the year 3000, but the
Bees invaded before we could colonize. And that means we'll have to rule
out any resurgent colonial group down there, because Six never had a
colony in the beginning."

"The Bees have been gone for over a hundred years," Stryker said.
"Colonists might have migrated from another Terran-occupied planet."

Gibson disagreed.

"We've touched at every inhabited world in this sector, Lee, and not one
surviving colony has developed space travel on its own. The Hymenops had
a hundred years to condition their human slaves to ignorance of
everything beyond their immediate environment--the motives behind that
conditioning usually escape us, but that's beside the point--and they
did a thorough job of it. The colonists have had no more than a century
of freedom since the Bees pulled out, and four generations simply isn't
enough time for any subjugated culture to climb from slavery to
interstellar flight."

Stryker made a padding turn about the control room, tugging unhappily at
the scanty fringe of hair the years had left him.

"If they're neither Hymenops nor resurgent colonists," he said, "then
there's only one choice remaining--they're aliens from a system we
haven't reached yet, beyond the old sphere of Terran exploration. We
always assumed that we'd find other races out here someday, and that
they'd be as different from us in form and motivation as the Hymenops.
Why not now?"

Gibson said seriously, "Not probable, Lee. The same objection that rules
out the Bees applies to any trans-Alphardian culture--they'd have to be
beyond the atomic fission stage, else they'd never have attempted
interstellar flight. The Ringwave with its Zero Interval Transfer
principle and instantaneous communications applications is the only
answer to long-range travel, and if they'd had that they wouldn't have
bothered with atomics."

Stryker turned on him almost angrily. "If they're not Hymenops or humans
or aliens, then what in God's name _are_ they?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Aye, there's the rub," Farrell said, quoting a passage whose aptness
had somehow seen it through a dozen reorganizations of insular tongue
and a final translation to universal Terran. "If they're none of those
three, we've only one conclusion left. There's no one down there at
all--we're victims of the first joint hallucination in psychiatric
history."

Stryker threw up his hands in surrender. "We can't identify them by
theorizing, and that brings us down to the business of first-hand
investigation. Who's going to bell the cat this time?"

"I'd like to go," Gibson said at once. "The ZIT computer can wait."

Stryker vetoed his offer as promptly. "No, the ZIT comes first. We may
have to run for it, and we can't set up a Transfer jump without the
computer. It's got to be me or Arthur."

Farrell felt the familiar chill of uneasiness that inevitably preceded
this moment of decision. He was not lacking in courage, else the
circumstances under which he had worked for the past ten years--the
sometimes perilous, sometimes downright charnel conditions left by the
fleeing Hymenop conquerors--would have broken him long ago. But that
same hard experience had honed rather than blunted the edge of his
imagination, and the prospect of a close-quarters stalking of an unknown
and patently hostile force was anything but attractive.

"You two did the field work on the last location," he said. "It's high
time I took my turn--and God knows I'd go mad if I had to stay inship
and listen to Lee memorizing his Handbook subsections or to Gib
practicing dead languages with Xavier."

Stryker laughed for the first time since the explosion that had so
nearly wrecked the _Marco Four_.

"Good enough. Though it wouldn't be more diverting to listen for hours
to you improvising enharmonic variations on the _Lament for Old Terra_
with your accordion."

Gibson, characteristically, had a refinement to offer.

"They'll be alerted down there for a reconnaissance sally," he said.
"Why not let Xavier take the scouter down for overt diversion, and drop
Arthur off in the helihopper for a low-level check?"

Stryker looked at Farrell. "All right, Arthur?"

"Good enough," Farrell said. And to Xavier, who had not moved from his
post at the magnoscanner: "How does it look, Xav? Have you pinned down
their base yet?"

The mechanical answered him in a voice as smooth and clear--and as
inflectionless--as a 'cello note. "The planet seems uninhabited except
for a large island some three hundred miles in diameter. There are
twenty-seven small agrarian hamlets surrounded by cultivated fields.
There is one city of perhaps a thousand buildings with a central square.
In the square rests a grounded spaceship of approximately ten times the
bulk of the _Marco Four_."

They crowded about the vision screen, jostling Xavier's jointed gray
shape in their interest. The central city lay in minutest detail before
them, the battered hulk of the grounded ship glinting rustily in the
late afternoon sunlight. Streets radiated away from the square in
orderly succession, the whole so clearly depicted that they could see
the throngs of people surging up and down, tiny foreshortened faces
turned toward the sky.

"At least they're human," Farrell said. Relief replaced in some measure
his earlier uneasiness. "Which means that they're Terran, and can be
dealt with according to Reclamations routine. Is that hulk spaceworthy,
Xav?"

Xavier's mellow drone assumed the convention vibrato that indicated
stark puzzlement. "Its breached hull makes the ship incapable of flight.
Apparently it is used only to supply power to the outlying hamlets."

The mechanical put a flexible gray finger upon an indicator graph
derived from a composite section of detector meters. "The power
transmitted seems to be gross electric current conveyed by metallic
cables. It is generated through a crudely governed process of continuous
atomic fission."

       *       *       *       *       *

Farrell, himself appalled by the information, still found himself able
to chuckle at Stryker's bellow of consternation.

"_Continuous fission?_ Good God, only madmen would deliberately run a
risk like that!"

Farrell prodded him with cheerful malice. "Why say mad _men_? Maybe
they're humanoid aliens who thrive on hard radiation and look on the
danger of being blown to hell in the middle of the night as a
satisfactory risk."

"They're not alien," Gibson said positively. "Their architecture is
Terran, and so is their ship. The ship is incredibly primitive, though;
those batteries of tubes at either end--"

"Are thrust reaction jets," Stryker finished in an awed voice.
"Primitive isn't the word, Gib--the thing is prehistoric! Rocket
propulsion hasn't been used in spacecraft since--how long, Xav?"

Xavier supplied the information with mechanical infallibility. "Since
the year 2100 when the Ringwave propulsion-communication principle was
discovered. That principle has served men since."

Farrell stared in blank disbelief at the anomalous craft on the screen.
Primitive, as Stryker had said, was not the word for it: clumsily ovoid,
studded with torpedo domes and turrets and bristling at either end with
propulsion tubes, it lay at the center of its square like a rusted relic
of a past largely destroyed and all but forgotten. What a magnificent
disregard its builders must have had, he thought, for their lives and
the genetic purity of their posterity! The sullen atomic fires banked in
that oxidizing hulk--

Stryker said plaintively, "If you're right, Gib, then we're more in the
dark than ever. How could a Terran-built ship eleven hundred years old
get _here_?"

Gibson, absorbed in his chess-player's contemplation of alternatives,
seemed hardly to hear him.

"Logic or not-logic," Gibson said. "If it's a Terran artifact, we can
discover the reason for its presence. If not--"

"_Any problem posed by one group of human beings_," Stryker quoted his
Handbook, "_can be resolved by any other group, regardless of ideology
or conditioning, because the basic perceptive abilities of both must be
the same through identical heredity_."

"If it's an imitation, and this is another Hymenop experiment in
condition ecology, then we're stumped to begin with," Gibson finished.
"Because we're not equipped to evaluate the psychology of alien
motivation. We've got to determine first which case applies here."

       *       *       *       *       *

He waited for Farrell's expected irony, and when the navigator
forestalled him by remaining grimly quiet, continued.

"The obvious premise is that a Terran ship must have been built by
Terrans. Question: Was it flown here, or built here?"

"It couldn't have been built here," Stryker said. "Alphard Six was
surveyed just before the Bees took over in 3025, and there was nothing
of the sort here then. It couldn't have been built during the two and a
quarter centuries since; it's obviously much older than that. It was
flown here."

"We progress," Farrell said dryly. "Now if you'll tell us _how_, we're
ready to move."

"I think the ship was built on Terra during the Twenty-second Century,"
Gibson said calmly. "The atomic wars during that period destroyed
practically all historical records along with the technology of the
time, but I've read well-authenticated reports of atomic-driven ships
leaving Terra before then for the nearer stars. The human race climbed
out of its pit again during the Twenty-third Century and developed the
technology that gave us the Ringwave. Certainly no atomic-powered ships
were built after the wars--our records are complete from that time."

Farrell shook his head at the inference. "I've read any number of
fanciful romances on the theme, Gib, but it won't stand up in practice.
No shipboard society could last through a thousand-year space voyage.
It's a physical and psychological impossibility. There's got to be some
other explanation."

       *       *       *       *       *

Gibson shrugged. "We can only eliminate the least likely alternatives
and accept the simplest one remaining."

"Then we can eliminate this one now," Farrell said flatly. "It entails a
thousand-year voyage, which is an impossibility for any gross reaction
drive; the application of suspended animation or longevity or a
successive-generation program, and a final penetration of
Hymenop-occupied space to set up a colony under the very antennae of the
Bees. Longevity wasn't developed until around the year 3000--Lee here
was one of the first to profit by it, if you remember--and suspended
animation is still to come. So there's one theory you can forget."

"Arthur's right," Stryker said reluctantly. "An atomic-powered ship
_couldn't_ have made such a trip, Gib. And such a lineal-descendant
project couldn't have lasted through forty generations, speculative
fiction to the contrary--the later generations would have been too far
removed in ideology and intent from their ancestors. They'd have adapted
to shipboard life as the norm. They'd have atrophied physically, perhaps
even have mutated--"

"And they'd never have fought past the Bees during the Hymenop invasion
and occupation," Farrell finished triumphantly. "The Bees had better
detection equipment than we had. They'd have picked this ship up long
before it reached Alphard Six."

"But the ship wasn't here in 3000," Gibson said, "and it is now.
Therefore it must have arrived at some time during the two hundred
years of Hymenop occupation and evacuation."

Farrell, tangled in contradictions, swore bitterly. "But why should the
Bees let them through? The three domes on Five are over two hundred
years old, which means that the Bees were here before the ship came. Why
didn't they blast it or enslave its crew?"

"We haven't touched on all the possibilities," Gibson reminded him. "We
haven't even established yet that these people were never under Hymenop
control. Precedent won't hold always, and there's no predicting nor
evaluating the motives of an alien race. We never understood the
Hymenops because there's no common ground of logic between us. Why try
to interpret their intentions now?"

Farrell threw up his hands in disgust. "Next you'll say this is an
ancient Terran expedition that actually succeeded! There's only one way
to answer the questions we've raised, and that's to go down and see for
ourselves. Ready, Xav?"

       *       *       *       *       *

But uncertainty nagged uneasily at him when Farrell found himself alone
in the helihopper with the forest flowing beneath like a leafy river and
Xavier's scouter disappearing bulletlike into the dusk ahead.

We never found a colony so advanced, Farrell thought. Suppose this is a
Hymenop experiment that really paid off? The Bees did some weird and
wonderful things with human guinea pigs--what if they've created the
ultimate booby trap here, and primed it with conditioned myrmidons in
our own form?

Suppose, he thought--and derided himself for thinking it--one of those
suicidal old interstellar ventures _did_ succeed?

Xavier's voice, a mellow drone from the helihopper's Ringwave-powered
visicom, cut sharply into his musing. "The ship has discovered the
scouter and is training an electronic beam upon it. My instruments
record an electromagnetic vibration pattern of low power but rapidly
varying frequency. The operation seems pointless."

Stryker's voice followed, querulous with worry: "I'd better pull Xav
back. It may be something lethal."

"Don't," Gibson's baritone advised. Surprisingly, there was excitement
in the engineer's voice. "I think they're trying to communicate with
us."

Farrell was on the point of demanding acidly to know how one went about
communicating by means of a fluctuating electric field when the
unexpected cessation of forest diverted his attention. The helihopper
scudded over a cultivated area of considerable extent, fields stretching
below in a vague random checkerboard of lighter and darker earth, an
undefined cluster of buildings at their center. There was a central
bonfire that burned like a wild red eye against the lower gloom, and in
its plunging ruddy glow he made out an urgent scurrying of shadowy
figures.

"I'm passing over a hamlet," Farrell reported. "The one nearest the
city, I think. There's something odd going on down--"

Catastrophe struck so suddenly that he was caught completely unprepared.
The helihopper's flimsy carriage bucked and crumpled. There was a
blinding flare of electric discharge, a pungent stink of ozone and a
stunning shock that flung him headlong into darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

He awoke slowly with a brutal headache and a conviction of nightmare
heightened by the outlandish tone of his surroundings. He lay on a
narrow bed in a whitely antiseptic infirmary, an oblong metal cell
cluttered with a grimly utilitarian array of tables and lockers and
chests. The lighting was harsh and overbright and the air hung thick
with pungent unfamiliar chemical odors. From somewhere, far off yet at
the same time as near as the bulkhead above him, came the unceasing
drone of machinery.

Farrell sat up, groaning, when full consciousness made his position
clear. He had been shot down by God knew what sort of devastating
unorthodox weapon and was a prisoner in the grounded ship.

At his rising, a white-smocked fat man with anachronistic spectacles and
close-cropped gray hair came into the room, moving with the professional
assurance of a medic. The man stopped short at Farrell's stare and
spoke; his words were utterly unintelligible, but his gesture was
unmistakable.

Farrell followed him dumbly out of the infirmary and down a bare
corridor whose metal floor rang coldly underfoot. An open port near the
corridor's end relieved the blankness of wall and let in a flood of
reddish Alphardian sunlight; Farrell slowed to look out, wondering how
long he had lain unconscious, and felt panic knife at him when he saw
Xavier's scouter lying, port open and undefended, on the square outside.

The mechanical had been as easily taken as himself, then. Stryker and
Gibson, for all their professional caution, would fare no better--they
could not have overlooked the capture of Farrell and Xavier, and when
they tried as a matter of course to rescue them the _Marco_ would be
struck down in turn by the same weapon.

The fat medic turned and said something urgent in his unintelligible
tongue. Farrell, dazed by the enormity of what had happened, followed
without protest into an intersecting way that led through a bewildering
succession of storage rooms and hydroponics gardens, through a small
gymnasium fitted with physical training equipment in graduated sizes and
finally into a soundproofed place that could have been nothing but a
nursery.

The implication behind its presence stopped Farrell short.

"A _creche_," he said, stunned. He had a wild vision of endless
generations of children growing up in this dim and stuffy room, to be
taught from their first toddling steps the functions they must fulfill
before the venture of which they were a part could be consummated.

One of those old ventures _had_ succeeded, he thought, and was awed by
the daring of that thousand-year odyssey. The realization left him more
alarmed than before--for what technical marvels might not an isolated
group of such dogged specialists have developed during a millennium of
application?

Such a weapon as had brought down the helihopper and scouter was
patently beyond reach of his own latter-day technology. Perhaps, he
thought, its possession explained the presence of these people here in
the first stronghold of the Hymenops; perhaps they had even fought and
defeated the Bees on their own invaded ground.

He followed his white-smocked guide through a power room where great
crude generators whirred ponderously, pouring out gross electric current
into arm-thick cables. They were nearing the bow of the ship when they
passed by another open port and Farrell, glancing out over the lowered
rampway, saw that his fears for Stryker and Gibson had been well
grounded.

The _Marco Four_, ports open, lay grounded outside.

       *       *       *       *       *

Farrell could not have said, later, whether his next move was planned or
reflexive. The whole desperate issue seemed to hang suspended for a
breathless moment upon a hair-fine edge of decision, and in that instant
he made his bid.

Without pausing in his stride he sprang out and through the port and
down the steep plane of the ramp. The rough stone pavement of the square
drummed underfoot; sore muscles tore at him, and weakness was like a
weight about his neck. He expected momentarily to be blasted out of
existence.

He reached the _Marco Four_ with the startled shouts of his guide
ringing unintelligibly in his ears. The port yawned; he plunged inside
and stabbed at controls without waiting to seat himself. The ports swung
shut. The ship darted up under his manipulation and arrowed into space
with an acceleration that sprung his knees and made his vision swim
blackly.

He was so weak with strain and with the success of his coup that he all
but fainted when Stryker, his scanty hair tousled and his fat face
comical with bewilderment, stumbled out of his sleeping cubicle and
bellowed at him.

"What the hell are you doing, Arthur? Take us down!"

Farrell gaped at him, speechless.

Stryker lumbered past him and took the controls, spiraling the _Marco
Four_ down. Men swarmed outside the ports when the Reclamations craft
settled gently to the square again. Gibson and Xavier reached the ship
first; Gibson came inside quickly, leaving the mechanical outside making
patient explanations to an excited group of Alphardians.

Gibson put a reassuring hand on Farrell's arm. "It's all right, Arthur.
There's no trouble."

Farrell said dumbly, "I don't understand. They didn't shoot you and Xav
down too?"

It was Gibson's turn to stare.

"No one shot you down! These people are primitive enough to use metallic
power lines to carry electricity to their hamlets, an anachronism you
forgot last night. You piloted the helihopper into one of those lines,
and the crash put you out for the rest of the night and most of today.
These Alphardians are friendly, so desperately happy to be found again
that it's really pathetic."

"_Friendly?_ That torpedo--"

"It wasn't a torpedo at all," Stryker put in. Understanding of the error
under which Farrell had labored erased his earlier irritation, and he
chuckled commiseratingly. "They had one small boat left for emergency
missions, and sent it up to contact us in the fear that we might
overlook their settlement and move on. The boat was atomic powered, and
our shield screens set off its engines."

Farrell dropped into a chair at the chart table, limp with reaction. He
was suddenly exhausted, and his head ached dully.

"We cracked the communications problem early last night," Gibson said.
"These people use an ancient system of electromagnetic wave propagation
called frequency modulation, and once Lee and I rigged up a suitable
transceiver the rest was simple. Both Xav and I recognized the old
language; the natives reported your accident, and we came down at once."

"They really came from Terra? They lived through a thousand years of
flight?"

"The ship left Terra for Sirius in 2171," Gibson said. "But not with
these people aboard, or their ancestors. That expedition perished after
less than a light-year when its hydroponics system failed. The Hymenops
found the ship derelict when they invaded us, and brought it to Alphard
Six in what was probably their first experiment with human subjects. The
ship's log shows clearly what happened to the original complement. The
rest is deducible from the situation here."

Farrell put his hands to his temples and groaned. "The crash must have
scrambled my wits. Gib, where _did_ they come from?"

"From one of the first peripheral colonies conquered by the Bees,"
Gibson said patiently. "The Hymenops were long-range planners,
remember, and masters of hypnotic conditioning. They stocked the ship
with a captive crew of Terrans conditioned to believe themselves
descendants of the original crew, and grounded it here in disabled
condition. They left for Alphard Five then, to watch developments.

"Succeeding generations of colonists grew up accepting the fact that
their ship had missed Sirius and made planetfall here--they still don't
know where they really are--by luck. They never knew about the Hymenops,
and they've struggled along with an inadequate technology in the hope
that a later expedition would find them. They found the truth hard to
take, but they're eager to enjoy the fruits of Terran assimilation."

Stryker, grinning, brought Farrell a frosted drink that tinkled
invitingly. "An unusually fortunate ending to a Hymenop experiment," he
said. "These people progressed normally because they've been let alone.
Reorienting them will be a simple matter; they'll be properly spoiled
colonists within another generation."

Farrell sipped his drink appreciatively.

"But I don't see why the Bees should go to such trouble to deceive these
people. Why did they sit back and let them grow as they pleased, Gib? It
doesn't make sense!"

"But it does, for once," Gibson said. "The Bees set up this colony as a
control unit to study the species they were invading, and they had to
give their specimens a normal--if obsolete--background in order to
determine their capabilities. The fact that their experiment didn't tell
them what they wanted to know may have had a direct bearing on their
decision to pull out."

Farrell shook his head. "It's a reverse application, isn't it of the old
saw about Terrans being incapable of understanding an alien culture?"

"Of course," said Gibson, surprised. "It's obvious enough, surely--hard
as they tried, the Bees never understood us either."


THE END

[Illustration]




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Science Fiction Stories_
    January 1960. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
    the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling
    and typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Control Group, by Roger Dee

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CONTROL GROUP ***

***** This file should be named 24949.txt or 24949.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/4/9/4/24949/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
