The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lani People, by J. F. Bone

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Lani People

Author: J. F. Bone

Posting Date: December 23, 2008 [EBook #2509]
Release Date: February, 2001

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LANI PEOPLE ***




Produced by An Anonymous Volunteer





THE LANI PEOPLE


By J. F. Bone




CHAPTER I

The boxed ad in the opportunities section of the Kardon Journal of
Allied Medical Sciences stood out like a cut diamond in a handful
of gravel. "Wanted," it read, "Veterinarian--for residency in active
livestock operation. Single recent graduate preferred. Quarters and
service furnished. Well-equipped hospital. Five-year contract, renewal
option, starting salary 15,000 cr./annum with periodic increases. State
age, school, marital status, and enclose recent tri-di with application.
Address Box V-9, this journal."

Jac Kennon read the box a second time. There must be a catch to it.
Nothing that paid a salary that large could possibly be on the level.
Fifteen thousand a year was top pay even on Beta, and an offer like this
for a new graduate was unheard of--unless Kardon was in the middle of an
inflation. But Kardon wasn't. The planet's financial status was A-1.
He knew. He'd checked that immediately after landing. Whatever might
be wrong with Kardon, it wasn't her currency. The rate of exchange was
1.2-1 Betan.

A five-year contract--hmm--that would be seventy-five thousand. Figure
three thousand a year for living expenses, that would leave sixty-plenty
of capital to start a clinic. The banks couldn't turn him down if he had
that much cash collateral.

Kennon chuckled wryly. He'd better get the job before he started
spending the money he didn't have. He had 231 credits plus a few
halves, tenths, and hundredths, a diploma in veterinary medicine, some
textbooks, a few instruments, and a first-class spaceman's ticket. By
watching his expenses he had enough money to live here for a month and
if nothing came of his efforts to find a job on this planet, there was
always his spaceman's ticket and another world.

Another world! There were over six thousand planets in the Brotherhood
of Man. At two months per planet, not figuring transit time, it would
take more than a thousand Galactic Standard years to visit them all, and
a man could look forward to scarcely more than five hundred at best. The
habitat of Man had become too large. There wasn't time to explore every
possibility.

But a man could have certain standards, and look until he found a
position that fitted. The trouble was--if the standards were too high
the jobs were too scarce. Despite the chronic shortage of veterinarians
throughout the Brotherhood, there was a peculiar reluctance on the part
of established practitioners to welcome recent graduates. Most of the
ads in the professional journals read "State salary desired," which was
nothing more than economic blackmail--a bald-faced attempt to get as
much for as little as possible. Kennon grimaced wryly. He'd be damned if
he'd sell his training for six thousand a year. Slave labor, that's what
it was. There were a dozen ads like that in the Journal. Well, he'd give
them a trial, but he'd ask eight thousand and full GEA benefits. Eight
years of school and two more as an intern were worth at least that.

He pulled the portable voicewrite to a comfortable position in front of
the view wall and began composing another of the series of letters that
had begun months ago in time and parsecs away in space. His voice was a
fluid counterpoint to the soft hum of the machine.

And as he dictated, his eyes took in the vista through the view
wall. Albertsville was a nice town, too young for slums, too new for
overpopulation. The white buildings were the color of winter butter in
the warm yellow sunlight as the city drowsed in the noonday heat. It
nestled snugly in the center of a bowl-shaped valley whose surrounding
forest clad hills gave mute confirmation to the fact that Kardon
was still primitive, an unsettled world that had not yet reached the
explosive stage of population growth that presaged maturity. But that
was no disadvantage. In fact, Kennon liked it. Living could be fun on a
planet like this.

It was abysmally crude compared to Beta, but the Brotherhood had opened
Kardon less than five hundred years ago, and in such a short time one
couldn't expect all the comforts of civilization.

It required a high population density to supply them, and while Kardon
was integrated its population was scarcely more than two hundred
million. It would be some time yet before this world would achieve a
Class I status. However, a Class II planet had some advantages. What it
lacked in conveniences it made up in opportunities and elbow room.

A normal Betan would have despised this world, but Kennon wasn't normal,
although to the casual eye he was a typical representative of the
Medico-Technological Civilization, long legged, fair haired, and short
bodied with the typical Betan squint that left his eyes mere slits
behind thick lashes and heavy brows. The difference was internal rather
than external.

Possibly it was due to the fact that his father was the commander of a
Shortliner and most of his formative years had been spent in space. To
Kennon, accustomed to the timeless horror of hyper space, all planets
were good, broad open places where a man could breathe unfiltered air
and look for miles across distances unbroken by dually bulk heads and
safety shields. On a planet there were spaciousness and freedom and
after the claustrophobic confinement of a hyper ship any world was
paradise. Kennon sighed, finished his letters, and placed them in the
mail chute. Perhaps, this time, there would be a favorable reply.



CHAPTER II

Kennon was startled by the speed with which his letters were answered.
Accustomed to the slower pace of Beta he had expected a week would
elapse before the first reply, but within twenty-four hours nine of his
twelve inquiries were returned. Five expressed the expected "Thank you
but I feel that your asking salary is a bit high in view of your lack
of experience." Three were frankly interested and requested a personal
interview. And the last was the letter, outstanding in its quietly
ostentatious folder-the reply from Box V-9.

"Would Dr. Kennon call at 10 A.M. tomorrow at the offices of
Outworld Enterprises Incorporated and bring this letter and suitable
identifications?" Kennon chuckled. Would he? There was no question about
it. The address, 200 Central Avenue, was only a few blocks away. In
fact, he could see the building from his window, a tall functional block
of durilium and plastic, soaring above the others on the street, the
sunlight gleaming off its clean square lines. He eyed it curiously,
wondering what he would find inside.

* * *

The receptionist took his I.D. and the letter, scanned them briefly,
and slipped them into one of the message tubes beside her desk. "It will
only be a moment, Doctor," she said impersonally. "Would you care to sit
down? '"

"Thank you," he said. The minute, reflected, could easily be an hour. But
she was right. It was only a minute until the message tube clicked
and popped a capsule onto the girl's desk. She opened it, and removed
Kennon's I.D. and a small yellow plastic rectangle. Her eyes widened at
the sight of the plastic card.

"Here you are, Doctor. Take shaft number one. Slip the card into the
scanner slot and you'll be taken to the correct floor. The offices you
want will be at the end of the corridor to the left. You'll find any
other data you may need on the card in case you get lost." She looked at
him with a curious mixture of surprise and respect as she handed him the
contents of the message tube.

Kennon murmured an acknowledgment, took the card and his I.D., and
entered the grav-shaft. There was the usual moment of heaviness as
the shaft whisked him upward and deposited him in front of a thickly
carpeted corridor.

Executive level, Kennon thought as he followed the receptionist's
directions. No wonder she had looked respectful. But what was he doing
here? The employment of a veterinarian wasn't important enough to demand
the attention of a senior executive. The personnel section could handle
the details of his application as well as not. He shrugged. Perhaps
veterinarians were more important on Kardon. He didn't know a thing
about this world's customs.

He opened the unmarked door at the end of the corridor, entered a small
reception room, smiled uncertainly at the woman behind the desk, and
received an answering smile in return.

Come right in, Dr. Kennon. Mr. Alexander is waiting for you.

Alexander! The entrepreneur himself! Why? Numb with surprise Kennon
watched the woman open the intercom on her desk.

"Sir, Dr. Kennon is here," she said.

"Bring him in," a smooth voice replied from the speaker. Alexander X. M.
Alexander, President of Outworld Enterprises--a lean, dark, wolfish man
in his early sixties--eyed Kennon with a flat predatory intentness that
was oddly disquieting. His stare combined the analytical inspection
of the pathologist, the probing curiosity of the psychiatrist, and the
weighing appraisal of the butcher. Kennon's thoughts about Alexander's
youth vanished that instant. Those eyes belonged to a leader on the
battlefield of galactic business.

Kennon felt the conditioned respect for authority surge through him in
a smothering wave. Grimly he fought it down, knowing it was a sign of
weakness that would do him no good in the interview which lay ahead.

"So you're Kennon," Alexander said. His lingua franca was clean and
accentless. "I expected someone older."

"Frankly, sir, so did I," Kennon replied.

Alexander smiled, an oddly pleasant smile that transformed the hard
straight lines in his face into friendly curves. "Business, Dr. Kennon,
is not the sole property of age."

"Nor is a veterinary degree," Kennon replied.

"True. But one thinks of a Betan as someone ancient and sedate."

"Ours is an old planet--but we still have new generations."

"A fact most of us outsiders find hard to believe," Alexander said. "I
picture your world as an ironclad society crystallized by age and custom
into something rigid and in flexible."

"You would be wrong to do so," Kennon said. "Even though we are cultural
introverts there is plenty of dynamism within our society."

"How is it that you happen to be out here on the edge of civilization?"

"I never said I was like my society," Kennon grinned. "Actually I
suppose I'm one of the proverbial bad apples."

"There's more to it than that," Alexander said. "Your early years
probably influenced you."

Kennon looked sharply at the entrepreneur. How much did the man really
know about him? "I suppose so," he said indifferently.

Alexander looked pleased. "But even with your childhood experiences
there must be an atavistic streak in you--a throwback to your
adventurous Earth forebears who settled your world?"

Kennon shrugged. "Perhaps you're right. I really don't know. Actually,
I've never thought about it. It merely seemed to me that an undeveloped
world offered more opportunity."

"It does," Alexander said. "But it also offers more work. If you're
figuring that you can get along on the minimum physical effort required
on the Central Worlds, you have a shock coming."

"I'm not that innocent," Kennon said. "But I am not so stupid that I
can't apply modifications of Betan techniques to worlds as new as this."

Alexander chuckled. "I like you," he said suddenly. "Here read this and
see if you'd care to work for me." He picked a contract form from one of
the piles of paper on his desk and handed it to Kennon. "This is one
of our standard work contracts. Take it back to your hotel and check it
over. I'll expect to see you at this time tomorrow."

"Why waste time?" Kennon said. "The rapid-reading technique originated
on Beta. I can tell you in fifteen minutes."

"Hmm. Certainly. Read it here if you wish. I like to get things
settled--the sooner the better. Sit down, young man and read. You can
rouse me when you're finished." He turned his attention to the papers on
his desk and within seconds was completely oblivious of Kennon, his face
set in the rapt trancelike expression of a trained rapid reader.

Kennon watched for a moment as sheets of paper passed through
Alexander's hands to be added to the pile at the opposite end of the
desk. The man would do better, he thought, if he would have his staff
transcribe the papers to microfilm that could be read through an
interval-timed scanner. He might suggest that later. As for now, he
shrugged and seated himself in the chair beside the desk. The quiet was
broken only by the rustle of paper as the two rapt-faced men turned page
after page with mechanical regularity.

Finally Kennon turned the last page, paused, blinked, and performed
the necessary mental gymnastics to orient his time sense. Alexander, he
noticed, was still engrossed, sunk in his autohypnotic trance. Kennon
waited until he had finished the legal folder which he was reading and
then gently intruded upon Alexander's concentration.

Alexander looked up blankly and then went through the same mental
gyrations Kennon had performed a few minutes before. His eyes focused
and became hard and alert.

"Well?" he asked. "What do you think of it?"

"I think it's the damnedest, trickiest, most unilateral piece of
legalistics I've ever seen," Kennon said bluntly. "If that's the best
you can offer, I wouldn't touch the job with a pair of forceps."

Alexander smiled. "I see you read the fine print," he said. There was
quiet amusement in his voice. "So you don't like the contract?"

"No sensible man would. I'm damned if I'll sign commitment papers just
to get a job. No wonder you're having trouble getting professional help.
If your contracts are all like that it's' a wonder anyone works for
you."

"We have no complaints from our employees," Alexander said stiffly.

"How could you? If they signed that contract you'd have a perfect right
to muzzle them."

"There are other applicants for this post," Alexander said.

"Then get one of them. I wouldn't be interested."

"A spaceman's ticket is a good thing to have," Alexander said idly.
"It's a useful ace in the hole. Besides, you have had three other job
offers--all of which are good even though they don't pay fifteen Ems a
year."

Kennon did a quick double take. Alexander's investigative staff was
better than good. It was uncanny.

"But seriously, Dr. Kennon, I am pleased that you do not like that
contract. Frankly, I wouldn't consider employing you if you did."

"Sir?"

"That contract is a screen. It weeds out the careless, the fools, and
the unfit in one operation. A man who would sign a thing like that
has no place in my organization." Alexander chuckled at Kennon's blank
expression. "I see you have had no experience with screening contracts."

"I haven't," Kennon admitted. "On Beta the tests are formal. The
Medico-Psych Division supervises them."

"Different worlds, different methods," Alexander observed. "But they're
all directed toward the same goal. Here we aren't so civilized. We
depend more on personal judgment." He took another contract from one of
the drawers of his desk. "Take a look at this. I think you'll be more
satisfied."

"If you don't mind, I'll read it now," Kennon said.

Alexander nodded.

* * *

"It's fair enough," Kennon said, "except for Article Twelve."

"The personal privilege section?

"Yes."

"Well, that's the contract. You can take it or leave it."

"I'll leave it," Kennon said. "Thank you for your time." He rose to his
feet, smiled at Alexander, and turned to the door. "Don't bother to call
your receptionist," he said. "I can find my way out."

"Just a minute, Doctor," Alexander said. He was standing behind the
desk, holding out his hand.

"Another test?" Kennon inquired.

Alexander nodded. "The critical one," he said. "Do you want the job?"

"Of course."

"Without knowing more about it?"

"The contract is adequate. It defines my duties."

"And you think you can handle them?"

"I know I can."

"I notice," Alexander observed, "that you didn't object to other
provisions."

"No, sir. They're pretty rigid, but for the salary you are paying I
figure you should have some rights. Certainly you have the right to
protect your interests. But that Article Twelve is a direct violation of
everything a human being should hold sacred besides being a violation
of the Peeper Laws. I'd never sign a contract that didn't carry a full
Peeper rider."

"That's quite a bit."

"That's the minimum," Kennon corrected. "Naturally, I won't object
to mnemonic erasure of matters pertaining to your business once my
contract's completed and I leave your employment. But until then there
will be no conditioning, no erasures, no taps, no snoopers, and no
checkups other than the regular periodic psychans. I'll consult with you
on vacation time and will arrange it to suit your convenience. I'll even
agree to emergency recall, but that's the limit." Kennon's voice was
flat.

"You realize I'm agreeing to give you a great deal of personal liberty,"
Alexander said. "How can I protect myself?"

"I'll sign a contingency rider," Kennon said, "if you will specify
precisely what security matters I am not to reveal."

"I accept," Alexander said. "Consider yourself hired." He touched
a button on his desk. "Prepare a standard 2-A contract for Dr.
Jac Kennon's signature. And attach two riders, a full P-P-yes, no
exceptions--and a security-leak contingency, Form 287-C. Yes--that's
right--that one. And strike out all provisions of Article Twelve which
conflict with the Peeper Laws. Yes. Now--and finish it as soon as you
can." He touched another button. "Well, that's that," he said. "I hope
you'll enjoy being a member of our group."

"I think I shall," Kennon said. "You know, sir, I would have waived part
of that last demand if you had cared to argue."

"I know it," Alexander said. "But what concessions I could have wrung
from you would be relatively unimportant beside the fact that you would
be unhappy about them later. What little I could have won here, I'd lose
elsewhere. And since I want you, I'd prefer to have you satisfied."

"I see," Kennon said. Actually he didn't see at all. He looked curiously
at the entrepreneur. Alexander couldn't be as easy as he seemed.
Objectivity and dispassionate weighing and balancing were nice traits
and very helpful ones, but in the bear pit of galactic business they
wouldn't keep their owner alive for five minutes. The interworld trade
sharks would have skinned him long ago and divided the stripped carcass
of his company between them.

But Outworld was a "respected" company. The exchange reports said
so--which made Alexander a different breed of cat entirely. Still, his
surface was perfect--polished and impenetrable as a duralloy turret on
one of the latest Brotherhood battleships. Kennon regretted he wasn't a
sensitive. It would be nice to know what Alexander really was.

"Tell me, sir," Kennon asked. "What are the real reasons that make you
think I'm the man you want?"

"And you're the young man who's so insistent on a personal privacy
rider," Alexander chuckled. "However, there's no harm telling you. There
are several reasons.

"You're from a culture whose name is a byword for moral integrity. That
makes you a good risk so far as your ethics are concerned. In addition
you're the product of one of the finest educational systems in the
galaxy-and you have proven your intelligence to my satisfaction. You
also showed me that you weren't a spineless 'yes man.' And finally, you
have a spirit of adventure. Not one in a million of your people would do
what you have done. What more could an entrepreneur ask of a prospective
employee?"

Kennon sighed and gave up. Alexander wasn't going to reveal a thing.

"All I hope," Alexander continued affably, "is that you'll find Outworld
Enterprises as attractive as did your predecessor Dr. Williamson. He was
with us until he died last month--better than a hundred years."

"Died rather young, didn't he?"

"Not exactly, he was nearly four hundred when he joined us. My
grandfather was essentially conservative. He liked older men, and Old
Doc was one of his choices--a good one, too. He was worth every credit
we paid him."

"I'll try to do as well," Kennon said, "but I'd like to warn you that I
have no intention of staying as long as he did. I want to build a clinic
and I figure sixty thousand is about enough to get started."

"When will you veterinarians ever learn to be organization men?"
Alexander asked. "You're as independent as tomcats."

Kennon grinned. "It's a breed characteristic, I guess."

Alexander shrugged. "Perhaps you'll change your mind after you've worked
for us."

"Possibly, but I doubt it."

"Tell me that five years from now," Alexander said--"Ah--here are
the contracts." He smiled at the trim secretary who entered the room
carrying a stack of papers.

"The riders are as you asked, sir," the girl said.

"Good. Now, Doctor, if you please."

"You don't mind if I check them?" Kennon asked.

"Not at all. And when you're through, just leave them on the
desk--except for your copy, of course." Alexander scrawled his signature
on the bottom of each contract. "Don't disturb me. I'll be in contact
with you. Leave your whereabouts with your hotel." He turned to the
papers in front of him, and then looked up for the last time. "Just one
more thing," he said. "You impress me as a cautious man. It would be
just as well if you carried your caution with you when you leave this
room."

Kennon nodded, and Alexander turned back to his work.



CHAPTER III

"I'd never have guessed yesterday that I'd be here today," Kennon said
as he looked down at the yellow waters of the Xantline Sea flashing to
the rear of the airboat at a steady thousand kilometers per hour as they
sped westward in the middle traffic level. The water, some ten thousand
meters below, had been completely empty for hours as the craft hurtled
through the equatorial air.

"We have to move fast to stay ahead of our ulcers," Alexander said
with a wry smile. "Besides, I wanted to get away from the Albertsville
offices for awhile."

"Three hours' notice," Kennon said. "That's almost too fast."

"You had nothing to keep you in the city, and neither did I--at least
nothing important. There are plenty of females where we are going and
I need you on Flora--not in Albertsville. Besides I can get you there
faster than if you waited for a company transport."

"Judging from those empty sea lanes below, Flora must be an
out-of-the-way place," Kennon said.

"It is. It's out of the trade lanes. Most of the commercial traffic is
in the southern hemisphere. The northern hemisphere is practically
all water. Except for Flora and the Otpens there isn't a land area for
nearly three thousand kilometers in any direction, and since the company
owns Flora and the surrounding island groups there's no reason for
shipping to come there. We have our own supply vessels, a Discovery
Charter, and a desire for privacy.--Ah! It won't be long now. There's
the Otpens!" Alexander pointed at a smudge on the horizon that quickly
resolved into an irregular chain of tiny islets that slipped below them.
Kennon got a glimpse of gray concrete on one of the larger islands, a
smudge of green trees, and white beaches against which the yellow waters
dashed in smothers of foam.

"Rugged-looking place," he murmured.

"Most of them are deserted. Two support search and warning stations and
automatic interceptors to protect our property. Look!--there's Flora."
Alexander gestured at the land mass that appeared below.

Flora was a great green oval two hundred kilometers long and about a
hundred wide.

"Pretty, isn't it?" Alexander said as they sped over the low range
of hills and the single gaunt volcano filling the eastward end of
the island and swept over a broad green valley dotted with fields
and orchards interspersed at intervals by red-roofed structures whose
purpose was obvious.

"Our farms," Alexander said redundantly. The airboat crossed a
fair-sized river. "That's the Styx," Alexander said. "Grandfather named
it. He was a classicist in his way--spent a lot of his time reading
books most people never heard of. Things like the Iliad and Gone with
the Wind. The mountains he called the Apennines, and that volcano's
Mount Olympus. The marshland to the north is called the Pontine
Marshes--our main road is the Camino Real." Alexander grinned. "There's
a lot of Earth on Flora. You'll find it in every name. Grandfather
was an Earthman and he used to get nostalgic for the homeworld.
Well--there's Alexandria coming up. We've just about reached the end of
the line."

Kennon stared down at the huge gray-green citadel resting on a small
hill in the center of an open plain. It was a Class II Fortalice built
on the efficient star-shaped plan of half a millennium ago--an ugly
spiky pile of durilium, squat and massive with defensive shields and
weapons which could still withstand hours of assault by the most modern
forces.

"Why did he build a thing like that?" Kennon asked.

"Alexandria?--well, we had trouble with the natives when we first came,
and Grandfather had a synthesizer and tapes for a Fortalice in his
ship. So he built it. It serves the dual purpose of base and house. It's
mostly house now, but it's still capable of being defended."

"And those outbuildings?"

"They're part of your job."

The airboat braked sharply and settled with a smooth, sickeningly
swift rush that left Kennon gasping--feeling that his stomach was still
floating above him in the middle level. He never had become accustomed
to an arbutus landing characteristics. Spacers were slower and steadier.
The ship landed gently on a pitted concrete slab near the massive
radiation shields of the barricaded entranceway to the fortress.
Projectors in polished dually turrets swivelled to point their ugly
noses at them. It gave Kennon a queasy feeling. He never liked to trust
his future to automatic machinery. If the analyzers failed to decode the
ship's I.D. properly, Kennon, Alexander, the ship, and a fair slice of
surrounding territory would become an incandescent mass of dissociated
atoms.

"Grandfather was a good builder," Alexander, said proudly. "Those
projectors have been mounted nearly four hundred years and they're still
as good as the day they were installed."

"I can see that," Kennon said uncomfortably. "You ought to dismantle
them. They're enough to give a man the weebies."

Alexander chuckled. "Oh--they're safe. The firing mechanism's safetied.
But we keep them in operating condition. You never can tell when they'll
come in handy."

"I knew Kardon was primitive, but I didn't think it was that bad. What's
the trouble?"

"None--right now," Alexander said obliquely, "and since we've shown we
can handle ourselves there probably won't be any more."

"You must raise some pretty valuable stock if the competition tried to
rustle them in the face of that armament."

"We do." Alexander said. "Now if you'll follow me"--the entrepreneur
opened the cabin door letting in a blast of heat and a flood of yellow
sunlight.

"Great Arthur Fleming!" Kennon exploded. "This place is a furnace!"

"It's hot out here on the strip," Alexander admitted, "but its cool
enough inside. Besides, you'll get used to this quickly enough--and
the nights are wonderful. The evening rains cool things off. Well--come
along." He began walking toward the arched entrance to the great
building some hundred meters away. Kennon followed looking around
curiously. So this was to be his home for the next five years? It didn't
look particularly inviting. There was a forbidding air about the place
that was in stark contrast to its pleasant surroundings.

They were only a few meters from the archway when a stir of movement
came from its shadow--the first life Kennon had seen since they
descended from the ship. In this furnace heat even the air was quiet.
Two women came out of the darkness, moving with quiet graceful steps
across the blistering hot concrete. They were naked except for a
loincloth, halter, and sandals and so nearly identical in form and
feature that Kennon took them to be twins. Their skins were burned a
deep brown that glistened in the yellow sun light.

Kennon shrugged. It was none of his business how his employer ran his
household or what his servants wore or didn't wear. Santos was a planet
of nudists, and certainly this hot sun was fully as brilliant as the one
which warmed that tropical planet In fact, he could see some virtue in
wearing as little as possible. Already he was perspiring.

The two women walked past them toward the airboat. Kennon turned to
look at them and noticed with surprise that they weren't human. The long
tails curled below their spinal bases were adequate denials of human
ancestry.

"Humanoids!" he gasped. "For a moment I thought-"

"Gave you a start-eh?" Alexander chuckled. "It always does when a
stranger sees a Lani for the first time. Well--now you've seen some of
the livestock what do you think of them?"

"I think you should have hired a medic."

Alexander shook his head. "No--it wouldn't be reason able or legal.
You're the man for the job."

"But I've no experience with humanoid types. We didn't cover that phase
in our studies--and from their appearance they'd qualify as humans
anywhere if it weren't for those tails!"

"They're far more similar than you think," Alexander said. "It just goes
to show what parallel evolution can do. But there are differences."

"I never knew that there was indigenous humanoid life on Kardon," Kennon
continued. "The manual says nothing about it."

"Naturally. They're indigenous only to this area."




"That's impossible. Species as highly organized as that simply don't
originate on isolated islands."

"This was a subcontinent once," Alexander said. "Most of it has been
inundated. Less than a quarter of a million years ago there was over a
hundred times the land area in this region than exists today. Then the
ocean rose. Now all that's left is the mid continent plateau and a few
mountain tops. You noted, I suppose, that this is mature topography
except for that range of hills to the east. The whole land area at the
time of flooding was virtually a peneplain. A rise of a few hundred feet
in the ocean level was all that was needed to drown most of the land."

"I see. Yes, it's possible that life could have developed here under
those conditions. A peneplain topography argues permanence for hundreds
of millions of years."

"You have studied geology?" Alexander asked curiously. "Only as part of
my cultural base," Kennon said. "Merely a casual acquaintance."

"We think the Lani were survivors of that catastrophe--and with their
primitive culture they were unable to reach the other land masses,"
Alexander shrugged. "At any rate they never established themselves
anywhere else."

"How did you happen to come here?"

"I was born here," Alexander said. "My grandfather discovered this world
better than four hundred years ago. He picked this area because it all
could be comfortably included in Discovery Rights. It wasn't until years
afterward that he realized the ecological peculiarities of this region."

"He certainly capitalized on them."

"There was plenty of opportunity. The plants and animals here are
different from others in this world. Like Australia in reverse."

Kennon looked blank, and Alexander chuckled. "Australia was a
subcontinent on Earth," he explained. "Its ecology, however, was
exceedingly primitive when compared with the rest of the planet. Flora's
on the contrary, was--and is--exceedingly advanced when compared with
other native life forms on Kardon."

"Your grandfather stumbled on a real bonanza," Kennon said.

"For which I'm grateful," Alexander grinned. "It's made me the biggest
operator in this sector of the galaxy. For practical purposes I own an
independent nation. There's about a thousand humans here, and nearly six
thousand Lani. We're increasing the Lani now, since we found they have
commercial possibilities. Up to thirty years ago we merely used them for
labor."

Kennon didn't speculate on what Alexander meant. He knew. For practical
purposes, his employer was a slave trader--or would have been if the
natives were human. As it was, the analogy was so close that it wasn't
funny.

They entered the fortress, passed through a decontamination chamber that
would have done credit to an exploration ship, and emerged dressed in
tunics and sandals that were far more appropriate and comfortable in
this tropical climate.

"That's one of Old Doc's ideas," Alexander said, gesturing at the door
from which they had emerged. "He was a hound for sanitation and he
infected us with the habit." He turned and led the way down an arched
corridor that opened into a huge circular room studded with iris doors.

Kennon sucked his breath in with a low gasp of amazement. The room was
a gem of exquisite beauty. The parquet floor was inlaid with rare
hardwoods from a hundred different worlds. Parthian marble veneer
covered with lacy Van tapestries from Santos formed the walls. Delicate
ceramics, sculpture, and bronzes reflected the art of a score of
different civilizations. A circular pool, festooned with lacelike
Halsite ferns, stood in the center of the room, surrounding a polished
black granite pedestal on which stood an exquisite bronze of four Lani
females industriously and eternally pouring golden water from vases held
in their shapely hands. "Beautiful," Kennon said softly.

"We like it," Alexander said.

"We?"

"Oh yes--I forgot to tell you about the Family," Alexander said grimly.
"I run Outworld, and own fifty per cent of it. The Family owns the other
fifty. There are eight of them--the finest collection of parasites
in the entire galaxy. At the moment they can't block me since I also
control my cousin Douglas's shares. But when Douglas comes of age they
will be troublesome. Therefore I defer to them. I don't want to build a
united opposition. Usually I can get one or more of them to vote with
me on critical deals, but I always have to pay for their support."
Alexander's voice was bitter as he touched the dilate button on the iris
door beside him. "You'll have to meet them tonight. There's five of them
here now."

"That isn't in the contract," Kennon said. He was appalled at Alexander.
Civilized people didn't speak of others that way, even to intimates.

"It can't be helped. You must meet them. It's part of the job."
Alexander's voice was grim. "Mother, Cousin Anne, Douglas, and Eloise
like to play lord of the manor. Cousin Harold doesn't care--for which
you should be grateful."

The door dilated, and Alexander ushered Kennon into the room. The Lani
sitting on the couch opposite the door leaped to her feet, her mouth
opening in an O of surprise. Her soft snow-white hair, creamy skin, and
bright china blue eyes were a startling contrast to her black loincloth
and halter. Kennon stared appreciatively.

Her effect on Alexander, however, was entirely different. His face
darkened. "You!" he snapped. "What are you doing here?"

"Serving, sir," the Lani said.

"On whose authority?"

"Man Douglas, sir."

Alexander groaned. "You see," he said, turning to Kennon. "We
need someone here with a little sense. Like I was telling you, the
Family'd"--he stopped abruptly and turned back to the Lani. "Your name
and pedigree," he demanded.

"Silver Dawn, sir--out of White Magic--platinum experimental
type--strain four."

"I thought so. How long have you been inhouse?"

"Almost a month, sir."

"You're terminated. Report to Goldie and tell her that Man Alexander
wants you sent back to your group."

The Lani's eyes widened. "Man Alexander!--You?"

Alexander nodded.

"Gosh!" she breathed. "The big boss!"

"Get moving," Alexander snapped, "and tell Goldie to report to me in my
quarters."

"Yes, sir, right away, sir!" The Lath ran, disappearing through the door
they had entered with a flash of shapely white limbs.

"That Douglas!" Alexander growled. "Leave that young fool alone here
for six months and he'd disrupt the entire operation. The nerve of that
young pup--requisitioning an experimental type for household labor. Just
what does he think he's doing?"

The question obviously didn't demand a reply, so Kennon kept discreetly
silent as Alexander crossed the room to the two doors flanking the
couch on which the Lani had sat. He opened the left-hand one revealing a
modern grav-shaft that carried them swiftly to the uppermost level. They
walked down a short corridor and stopped before another door. It opened
into a suite furnished with stark functional simplicity. It fitted the
entrepreneur's outward personality so exactly that Kennon had no doubt
that this was Alexander's quarters.

"Sit down, Kennon. Relax while you can," Alexander said as he dropped
into a chair and crossed his sandaled feet.

"I'm sure you have many questions, but they can wait."

"You might as well get some rest. You'll have little enough later. The
Family will probably put you through the meat grinder, but remember that
they don't control this business. You're my man."

Kennon had hardly seated himself in another chair when the door opened
and a plump pink-skinned Lani entered. She was considerably older
than the silver-haired one he had seen earlier, and her round face was
smiling.

"Ah, Goldie," Alexander said. "I understand Man Douglas has been giving
you quite a time."

"It's high time you came back, sir," she said. "Since Old Doc died, Man
Douglas has been impossible. He's been culling the staff and replacing
them with empty-headed fillies whose only claim to usefulness is that
they can fill out a halter. Pretty soon this place will be a pigsty."

"I'll take care of that," Alexander promised. "Now I'd like you to meet
Old Doc's replacement. This is Dr. Kennon, our new veterinarian."

"Pleased, I'm sure," Goldie said. "You look like a nice man."

"He is," Alexander said, "but he's just as hard as Old Doc--and he'll
have the same powers. Goldie's the head housekeeper," Alexander added.
"She's an expert, and you'd do well to take her advice on assignments."

Kennon nodded.

"Have a maid bring us a light meal and something to drink," Alexander
said. "Have a couple of porters take Dr. Kennon's things to Old Doc's
house. Find Man Douglas and tell him I want to see him at once. Tell the
Family that I've arrived and will see them in the Main Lounge at eight
tonight. Tell Blalok I'll be seeing him at nine. That's all."

"Yes, sir," Goldie said and left the room, her tail curling buoyantly.

"A good Lani," Alexander commented. "One of the best. Loyal,
trustworthy, intelligent. She's been running Alexandria for the past ten
years, and should be good for at least ten more."

"Ten?--how old is she?"

"Thirty."

"Thirty--years?"

Alexander nodded.

"Good Lord Lister! I'd have guessed her at least three hundred!"

"Wrong life scale. Lani only live about one tenth as long as we do.
They're mature at twelve and dead at fifty."

Alexander sighed. "That's another difference. Even without agerone we'd
live to be a hundred."

"Have you tried gerontological injections?"

"Once. They produced death in about two days. Killed five Lani with
them." Alexander's face darkened at an unpleasant memory. "So we don't
try any more," he said. "There are too many differences." He stretched.
"I'd tell you more about them but it'll be better to hear it from Evald
Blalok. He's our superintendent. Steve Jordan can tell you a lot, too.
He runs the Lani Division. But right now let's wait for Cousin Douglas.
The pup will take his time about coming--but he'll do it in the end.
He's afraid not to."

"I'd rather not," Kennon said. "It's poor manners to be injected into a
family affair--especially when I'm just one of the employees."

"You're not just one of the employees. You are the Station Veterinarian,
and as such you hold an authority second only to Blalok and myself. You
and Blalok are my hands, ears, and eyes on Flora. You are responsible
to me--and to me alone. While I defer at times to the desires of
the Family, I do not have to. I run Outworld Enterprises and all the
extensions of that organization. I possess control--and the Family knows
it. My men are respected and furthermore they know everything that goes
on." He smiled icily. "In a way it's quite a healthy situation. It
keeps my relatives under control. Somehow they dislike being disciplined
before outsiders. Now think no more about it." Alexander stood up and
walked over to one of the windows opening onto the broad roof gardens,
and stood looking at the sun-drenched greenery.

"Odd, isn't it," Alexander said, "how beautiful nature is and how simple
things are in a state of nature. It's only when man interjects himself
onto a scene that things get complicated. Take Flora for instance.
Before Grandfather came here, it must have been a pleasant place with
the simple natives happy in their paradise. But that's all changed
now. We have taken over--and they, like other lesser creatures on other
worlds, have been bent to our will and uses. I could pity them, but
being human I cannot afford that luxury."

Kennon understood. He, too, had felt that sensation, that odd tightening
of the throat when he first saw a Varl on Santos. The Varl had been the
dominant life form there until men had come. Now they were just another
animal added to humanity's growing list of pets and livestock. The
little Varl with their soft-furred bodies and clever six-fingered hands
made excellent pets and precision workmen. The products of those clever
hands, the tiny instruments, the delicate microminiaturized control
circuits, the incredibly fine lacework and tapestries, formed the bulk
of Santos' interstellar trade.

He had owned a Varl once and had delighted in its almost human
intelligence. But the Varl weren't human and there lay their tragedy.
Two thousand years of human domination had left them completely
dependent on their conquerors. They were merely intelligent animals--and
that was all they would ever be until the human race changed its
cultural pattern or was overthrown. The one alternative was as unlikely
as the other. Humanity had met some fierce competitors, but none with
its explosive acquisitive nature, and none with its drive to conquer,
colonize, and rule. And probably it never would.

The little Varl were one race among hundreds that had fallen before the
fierceness and the greed of men. But unlike most others, the Varl were
not combative. Therefore they had survived.

Yet had it been necessary to reduce them to slavery? They would never
be a threat. Not only were they essentially gentle and noncombative, but
their delicate bodies could not stand the strains of spaceflight.
They were trapped on their world. Why should they be forced into so
subordinate a role?--Why was humanity so jealous of its dominance
that no other species could exist except by sufferance? Why after five
thousand years of exploration, invasion, and colonization did the human
race still consider the galaxy as its oyster, and themselves uniquely
qualified to hold the knife? He hadn't thought this way since he had
given the Varl to his girl friend of the moment, and had blasted off for
Beta. Now the questions returned to haunt him. As a Betan, the haunting
was even more acute, since Beta had a related problem that was already
troublesome and would become more acute as the years passed.

He shrugged and laid the thought aside as a slim, dark-haired Lani
entered pushing a service cart ahead of her. The two men ate silently,
each busy with his own thoughts. And behind the view wall of Alexander's
apartment Kardon's brilliant yellow sun sank slowly toward the horizon,
filling the sky with flaming colors of red and gold, rimmed by the blues
and purples of approaching night. The sunset was gaudy and blatant,
Kennon thought with mild distaste, unlike the restful day-end displays
of his homeworld.



CHAPTER IV

Douglas Alexander was a puffy-faced youngster with small intolerant
eyes set in folds of fat above a button nose and a loose-lipped sensual
mouth. There was an odd expression of defiance overlaid with fear on his
pudgy features. Looking at him, Kennon was reminded of a frightened dog,
ready either to bite or cower.

But it wasn't Douglas who held his eye. It was the two Lani who followed
him into the room. Every line of their bodies was perfection that spoke
volumes about generations of breeding for physical elegance. They moved
with a co-ordinated grace that made Douglas look even more clumsy by
contrast. And they were identical, twin cream-and-gold works of art.
They were completely nude--and Kennon for the first time in his life
fully appreciated the beauty of an unclad female. To cover them would
be sacrilege, and ornaments would only detract from their exquisite
perfection.

Kennon knew that he was staring like an idiot. Alexander's amused smile
told him that much. With an effort he composed his startled features.

The pair looked at him with soft violet eyes--and it was as though some
psychic bathhouse attendant had poured ice water down his spine. For he
had seen that look before, that liquid introspective look in the velvet
eyes of cattle. He shivered. For a moment he had been thinking of them
as human. And somehow the lack of that indefinable some thing called
humanity robbed them of much of their glamour. They were still
beautiful, but their beauty had become impersonal.


"Don't take these as representative of the Lani," Alexander said
suddenly. "They're a special case, a very special case." He glared at
his cousin. "Damn your impudence," he said without beat. "I sent for
you--not your toys. Send them away."

Douglas sulkily thrust out his lower lip. "You can't talk to me like
that, Cousin Alex," he began. "I'm just a--"

"You heard me, Douglas. Out!" Alexander's voice didn't rise but it cut
like a whip.

"Oh, very well," Douglas said. "I can't fight you--yet." He turned to
the humanoids. "You heard the Boss-man. Go home."

The two nodded in unison and departed quickly. Somehow Kennon got the
impression that they were happy to leave.

"Just wait," Douglas said. "You can't boss me forever. Just wait. I'll
reach my majority in five years. I can vote my shares then--and then
I'll fix you. You won't be so high and mighty then, Mr. Big. I'll throw
in with the rest of the Family. They don't like you too much."

"Don't hold your breath waiting for the Family to help you," Alexander
said. "They wouldn't have anyone else but me handle the finances. They
love money too much. And until you get your inheritance remember one
thing--I'm master here."

"I know it," Douglas said, and then curiously--"Who's the oddball?" He
gestured at Kennon with a pudgy thumb.

"Our new veterinarian, Dr. Kennon."

"Oh--great! Now you tell me!"

"There's nothing like making a good first impression," Alexander said
with ironic emphasis. "I hope he cuts you off from the Lani. He'll have
the authority to do it, since he's taking Old Doc's place."

"He can't. I'm an owner. I own-"

"You own nothing. You're a minor. And under the terms of Grandfather's
will, you'll own nothing except an allowance until you reach legal age.
And that brings me to the reason I brought you here. Just when did you
gain the right to reorganize the household staff? Just when did you get
the power to interfere with the experimental program?"

Douglas flushed dull red and bit his lip. "Do we have to go into this in
front of strangers?"

"Kennon's my agent," Alexander said coldly, "and he might as well learn
about you and the others from the start."

"Well--what do you want him to do--watch me crawl?" Douglas asked
bitterly. "You'll make me do it. You always do. Do you want me to beg,
to say I was wrong, to promise I won't do it again?"

"You've done that already," Alexander said. "Several times. You need a
lesson. I won't have you meddling with valuable animals."

"And what are you going to do about it?"

"Put you where you can do no more damage. As of tomorrow you'll go to
Otpen One."

Douglas paled. His lips quivered, and his eyes flicked uneasily as
he watched Alexander's granite face. "You don't mean that," he said
finally. "You're joking."

"I never joke about business."

"But you can't do that! I'll tell the Family. They won't let you."

"I already have their consent," Alexander said. "I obtained it after
your last escapade. You'll be happy out there. You can play tin god all
you like. Master of life and death on a two-acre island. No one will
mind. You can also go to work. No one will mind that, either. And
Mullins won't mind as long as you leave the troops alone. Now get out of
here and get packed. You're leaving tomorrow morning."

"But cousin Alex--"

"Move! I'm tired of the sight of you!" Alexander said.

Douglas turned and shambled out of the room. His ego was thoroughly
deflated and he seemed more frightened than before. Obviously the Otpens
weren't the pleasantest place in this world.

"They're a military post," Alexander said. "And Commander Mullins
doesn't like Douglas. Can't say that I blame him. Douglas is a
thoroughly unpleasant specimen, and incidentally quite typical of the
rest of the Family." Alexander sighed and spread his hands in a gesture
that combined disgust and resignation. "Sometimes I wonder why I have
been cursed with my relatives."

Kennon nodded. The implications behind the empty eyes of Douglas's Lani
sickened him. There were several ways to produce that expression, all of
them unpleasant. Hypnoconditioning, the Quiet Treatment, brainburning,
transorbital leukotomy, lobectomy--all of the products of that diseased
period of humanity's thinking when men tampered with the brains of other
men in an effort to cure psychic states. Psychiatry had passed that
period, at least on the civilized worlds, where even animal experiments
were frowned upon as unnecessary cruelty.

"You saw those two Lani," Alexander said. "Grandfather had them made
that way as a birthday present for Douglas. He was getting senile. He
died a year later. You'd think a man would be ashamed to keep things
like that around--but not Douglas. He likes them." Alexander's voice was
tinged with contempt. "He knows they disgust me--so he parades them in.
I could strangle that pup sometimes!"

"I wondered about it. I wouldn't like to work for a man who permitted
such things."

"That was done before I took over. For the past three years there have
been no dockings, no mutilations. I can't see treating a helpless animal
like that."

"I feel better about it," Kennon said. "I didn't think you were that
sort."

"Understand me," Alexander said. "I'm always opposed to senseless
cruelty and waste--particularly when it's dangerous. Docked Lani are the
height of stupidity. Just because someone wants a pet that is an exact
duplicate of a human being is no reason to risk a court action. Those
Lani, and a few others whose tails have been docked, could be a legal
bombshell if they ever left Flora."

Kennon was jolted. He had been thinking of mental mutilation and
Alexander had been talking physical. Naturally they would be dangerous
property. Anyone attempting to sell a docked Lani would probably be
thrown in Detention and charged with slave trading.

"Did you ever figure the cost of taking a legal action through our court
system?" Alexander asked. "Even the small ones set you back four or five
thousand, and a first-class action like a Humanity Trial could cost
over a million. Grandfather found that out. Sure, there are differences
between Lani and humans, but a smart lawyer can make them seem trivial
until the final test and that would drag on for nearly two years until
all the requirements were satisfied--and by that time the unfavorable
publicity would drop sales to zero. The Family would be on my neck for
lost dividends, and I'd lose much of the control I hold over them.

"Sure, it's possible that prehensile tails could be produced by
mutation, but so far as we know it hasn't happened in human history. As
a result, the tail serves as a trade-mark--something that can be easily
recognized by anyone. So we sell them intact." Alexander crossed his
legs and settled back in his chair. "Shocks you, doesn't it?"

Kennon nodded. "Yes," he admitted. "It does."

"I know. You can't help it. Most of our new employees think the Lani are
human--at first. They learn better, but adjustment is always a strain.
They keep confusing external appearances with the true article. But
remember this--Lani are not human. They're animals. And on this island
they're treated as what they are--no more, no less. They are a part
of our economics and are bred, fed, and managed according to sound
livestock principles. Despite some of the things you may see here in
Alexandria, don't forget that. You are a veterinarian. Your job is to
handle disease problems in animals. Lani are animals. Therefore you will
be doing your job. I was disappointed in your reaction when you first
saw them, but I suppose it was natural. At any rate this should clear
the air."

"It does--intellectually," Kennon admitted. "But the physical
resemblance is so close that it is difficult to accept."

Alexander smiled. "Don't worry. You'll accept it in time. Now I think
it's time that you met the Family."



CHAPTER V

The main salon was crowded. The huge room, glittering with mirrors and
crystal, floored with thick carpets, and hung with rich drapes, had
something of the appearance of a Sarkian harem. Although there were only
five of the Alexander family present, there were at least twenty
Lani whose costumes ranged from the black G string and halter of the
household staff to the utter nudity of Douglas's playthings. They were
all female, and Kennon wondered for a moment what a male was like.

Besides Alexander, there were two men and three women: Douglas, still
with his sulky expression, an older man in his late nineties who looked
like Douglas's elder brother, two mature women who could be any age from
fifty to three hundred, and a girl. She might have been thirty--perhaps
younger, perhaps older, a lean feminine edition of Alexander, with the
same intriguing face and veiled predatory look. There was a hardness
about her that was absent in the others. Kennon had the feeling that
whatever this girl did, she didn't do it half way.

"My sister Eloise," Alexander said in a low voice. "Watch out for her.
She's as deadly as a puff adder and she collects men. The other man is
Douglas's father, Henry. The plump redhead beside him is his wife, Anne.
The other woman is my mother, Clara, even though Eloise and I don't look
like her. We take after Father."

"Where's he?" Kennon whispered.

"Dead," Alexander replied. "He was killed twenty years ago."

"I'd like to present Dr. Jac Kennon, our new veterinarian," Alexander
said into the hush that followed their entrance. The introductions that
followed were in proper form, and Kennon was beginning to feel more at
ease until Eloise sent one of her Lani with a summons. He looked around
for Alexander, but the entrepreneur was the center of a three-cornered
argument, hemmed in by Douglas, Henry, and Anne. Henry's voice was
raised in bitter protest that Alexander was exceeding his authority. He
shrugged. There was no help there.

"All right," he said, "tell your mistress I'll be along in a moment."

"Yes, Doctor," the Lani said, "but the Woman Eloise says for you to
come, and she is not accustomed to being disobeyed."

"Tell her what I said," Kennon replied. "I shall be there directly." He
crossed to the table and examined it, selecting a cluster of odd purple
fruit which looked more interesting than it tasted. When he had finished
he walked leisurely over to where Eloise sat.

She looked at him angrily. "I am accustomed to being obeyed by my
employees," she said coldly. Her dark eyes, oddly like her brother's,
traversed his hard body like twin scanners.

He returned her appraising stare with one of his own. "I'm not your
employee," he said bluntly. "I was hired by your brother, and there's
a full peeper rider on my contract." His eyes traveled slowly over her
carefully arranged hair, her make-up, her jewelry at throat and
arms, her painted finger- and toenails, and then across the slim
small-breasted lines of her body half revealed under her thin
ankle-length tunic of Lyranian silk.

"Satisfied?" she asked.

"On Beta," he said bluntly, "your appearance would qualify you for a
parasite camp. Six months of hard labor would do you no end of good.
You're soft, lazy, and undisciplined."

Eloise gasped. "Why, you--" she sputtered.

"And perhaps next time you'll learn to be polite," Kennon continued
imperturbably. "After all, the superficial attributes of good breeding
are not too hard to counterfeit."

To his surprise, Eloise giggled. "You bite, don't you?" she asked.
"Remind me to remember that."

"I shall."

"Of course, your actions weren't good breeding either."

"Admitted--but I've never pretended to be what I'm not. I'm the son of a
spaceship skipper, and I'm a veterinarian. That's all."

"That's not all. You are also a man." Her face was sober, "It's been
some time since I've met one. I'd almost forgotten they existed."

"There's your brother."

"Alex?--he's a money making machine. Come--sit beside me and let's
talk."

"About what?"

"You--me--your job, your life--anything you wish?"

"That line isn't exactly new," Kennon grinned.

"I know," she admitted, "but it usually works."

"I'm immune."

"That's what you think." Eloise's eyes were frankly appraising. "I think
I could become interested in you."

"I have a job here. I don't think I would have time to give you the
attention you'd demand."

"I get bored easily. It probably wouldn't be long before I would be
tired of you."

"Perhaps--and perhaps not, I can't afford to take the chance."

"You seem confident."

"You forget. I was a sailor."

"And spacemen have a reputation, eh?" Eloise chuckled.

"At that, you might be right. I remember the first officer of--" she let
the thought die. "But I became tired of him," she finished.

Kennon smiled. "I've never had that complaint."

"Perhaps you'd like to make the acid test?" she asked.

"Perhaps," he said. "But not tonight."

"Tomorrow then? Alex will be leaving in the morning. He never stays more
than a few hours." Eloise's eyes were bright, her lips moist and red.

"I'll pick the time," Kennon said--and added to himself, "If ever."
Despite her wealth Eloise was no different from the port-of-call girls.
If anything, she was worse since she had enough money to implement her
desires. They were merely in the trade for business reasons. No--Eloise
would be something to steer clear of. Alexander was right. She was a
mantrap. He stood up and bowed Betan fashion. "I see your brother is
free now. He wants to brief me on my duties here. We were discussing it
before we entered."

Eloise pouted. "You can always do that."

"You said yourself that Alexander never stays here very long. I would be
a poor employee if I delayed him." He grinned knowingly at her and she
smiled back with complete understanding.

"Very well, then. Get your business done. Your pleasure can wait."

Kennon steered Alexander over to an open window that led to a balcony.
"Whew!" he said. "I see what you mean."

"She's a tartar," Alexander agreed. "I suspect that she's a
nymphomaniac."

"You suspect?" Kennon asked. "By this time you should know. Let's get
out of here. I've had about all of your sister I care to take."

"Can't say as I blame you. I'll show you to your quarters. Maybe Old Doc
left a bottle or two, although I suspect the old sinner hung on until
the last one was empty."

"If he had to put up with your relatives as a steady diet, I can't say
that I blame him," Kennon said.

"Careful, Doctor. You're talking about my kinfolk," Alexander said
wryly. "At that, though, you have a point." The two men slipped quietly
from the room. Apparently none of the Family was conscious of their
departure except Eloise, who watched them leave with an enigmatic
expression on her narrow face.

They left the fortress through the rear gate and walked slowly down the
winding path that led to the cluster of buildings in the valley below.
It was a beautiful night, calm and clear with the stars shining down
from the dark vault of the heavens. The constellations were strange, and
Kennon missed the moons. Beta had three, two of which were always in the
sky, but Kardon was moonless. Somehow it gave the sky an empty look.

A damp coolness rose from the ground as the evening rain evaporated
mistily into the still air. Kennon sniffed the odor of soil and growing
vegetation, clean pleasant odors in contrast to what he had left. In the
distance a bird called sleepily from one of the fortress turrets and was
answered by some creature Kennon couldn't identify. A murmur of blended
sound came from the valley below, punctuated by high-pitched laughter.
Someone was singing, or perhaps chanting would be a better description.
The melody was strange and the words unrecognizable. The thin whine
of an atomotor in the fortress's generating plant slowly built up to a
keening undertone that blended into the pattern of half-perceived sound.

"Nice, isn't it?" Alexander remarked as they rounded another turn on the
switchback path.

"Yes. You can't hear a sound from back there except for that generator.
It's almost as though we shut those people out of existence by merely
closing a door."

"I wish it were that simple," Alexander said. "But doors that can be
closed can also be opened. Well--think you'll like it here?"

"I think so, providing I don't have to entertain your relatives."

"You mean Eloise? Don't worry about her. She's as fickle as the wind."

"I've never seen anyone so frankly predatory," Kennon said. "She worries
me."

"They'll all be gone tomorrow--except for Eloise," Alexander said with
mock comfort. "Douglas is on the Otpens for a year, and the others are
off somewhere."

"You'll be staying, I suppose."

"No--I'm afraid I can't."

"I hoped you'd help me get organized. This whole thing has been
something of a shock. I was expecting something entirely different."

"Sorry--someone has to run the business. But Blalok'll brief you.
Actually he's more qualified than I. He knows everything worth knowing
about this place. We're going past his house in a minute--want to stop
in and see him?"

"It's pretty late."

"Not for Blalok. He's a Mystic--a nocturnal. He's probably doing his
work now."

"Perhaps we shouldn't disturb him."

"Nonsense. He's used to it. I visit him frequently at night."

"Sure--but you're the boss."

"Well--in a sense you are too. At least in the veterinary end of this
business." Alexander swung sharply to the left and climbed a short
flight of stairs that led to the nearest house. Lights flared on the
deep porch, and the old-fashioned iris door dilated to frame the black
silhouette of a stocky, broad-shouldered man.

"Good evening, sir," he said. "I was expecting you. That the new vet
with you?"

"Your pipeline's still working, I see," Alexander said. "Yes, this is
Dr. Kennon--Evald Blalok--I wanted you two to meet."

Kennon liked the gray middle-aged man. He looked honest and competent,
a solid quiet man with a craggy face and the deep-set eyes of a Mystic.
His skin had the typical thickness and pore prominence of the dwellers
on that foggy world from which he came. But unlike the natives of Myst,
his skin was burned a dark brown by Kardon's sun. He seemed out of place
on this tropic world, but Kennon reflected wryly that there was probably
more than one misplaced human here, himself included.

"I've been going over Station Fourteen's records with Jordan," Blalok
said as he ushered them into the house. A tall black-haired man rose as
they entered.

"Skip the formality, Jordan. Sit down," Alexander said, "and meet Dr.
Kennon--Steve Jordan--Jordan runs the Lani Division."

Kennon nodded acknowledgment as Alexander continued, "What's this
trouble at Fourteen?"

"I don't know. We've got an epizootic of something. Another youngster
died this morning, and there's three more that look pretty bad,
jaundice, no appetite, complaining of muscular pains. Same symptoms as
took the others. The one this morning makes the fourth this month, and
we're only half through it."

"Are all your losses in this one station?" Kennon asked.

"No--but it's worst there."

"I don't like losses like that," Alexander said.

"Neither do I," Jordan replied.

"This isn't Jordan's fault, sir," Blalok said quickly. "As you know, we
haven't had a vet for three months."

"Two," Alexander corrected.

"Three--Old Doc wasn't around at all the month before he died," Blalok
said. "As a result we've got a problem. We need professional help."

"Well here he is--use him," Alexander said. He looked at Kennon, a trace
of amusement on his face. "There's nothing like getting into things
early."

"Particularly when one comes into them stone cold," Kennon added. "It's
a poor way to start a career."

"We can't afford to wait," Jordan said. "We need help."

"I'll see what can be done," Kennon replied. "Have you saved the body?"

"Every one of them," Jordan said. "They're in the hospital in the
autopsy room."

"That was sensible. A post-mortem might give us an answer. Where's the
hospital?"

"I'll show you," Jordan offered.

"Count me out," Alexander said. "I have a weak stomach."

"I'll go along if it's necessary," Blalok said.

"There's a staff there, Old Doc trained them," Jordan said.

"Then it shouldn't be necessary," Kennon said.

Blalok sighed with relief and turned to Alexander. "We could check the
records while those two are about their bloody work."

"I'd rather check a long strong drink," Alexander replied. "What with
the Family and this, it's too much to take for one evening."

Kennon hid a smile. Alexander had a weak spot. He was squeamish. That
was a good thing to know.



CHAPTER VI

Jordan opened the door of the two-story building below Blalok's house.
"This is it," he said, "just outside your front door. Convenient--no?"

"Too convenient," Kennon said, "also too quiet. Isn't anyone on duty?"

"I wouldn't know. Old Doc never kept the place open at night."

There was a stir of movement in the darkness, the lights flashed on,
and a sleepy-eyed Lani blinked at them in the sudden glare. She looked
blankly at Kennon and then brightened as she saw Jordan. "What's the
trouble, sir?" she asked.

"Nothing. We want to look at the Lani I sent down this morning--Dr.
Kennon would like to inspect the carcass."

"You're the new doctor?" the Lani asked. "Thank goodness you've come!
I'll get the staff. I'll be back in a moment." She stepped quickly over
to the switchboard beside the door and punched five buttons. Four more
humanoids came into the room, followed a little later by a fifth.

"Where's the emergency?" one asked.

"He is--it's our new doctor."

"More females," Kennon muttered to himself. He turned to Jordan. "Aren't
there any males in this crew?"

Jordan stared at him with mild surprise. "No, sir--didn't you know?
There are no male Lani."

"What?"

"Just that," Jordan said. "Only females. There hasn't been a male on the
island since Old Man Alexander took over. He killed them all."

"But that's impossible! How do they reproduce?"

"Ever hear of artificial fertilization?"

"Sure--but that's a dead end. The offspring are haploids and they're
sterile. The line would die out in a generation."

"Not the Lani--you can see for yourself. We've been using the technique
here for better than four centuries, and we're still doing all right.
Over forty generations so far, and from the looks of things we can go on
indefinitely."

"But how is it done?"

"I don't know. That's Alexander's secret. The Boss-man doesn't tell us
everything. All I know is that we get results. Old Doc knew how it was
done, and I suppose you will too, but don't ask me. I'm dumb."

Kennon shrugged. Maybe--maybe not. At any rate there was no sense in
belaboring the point. He turned to the staff. Five of them were the
same big-boned heavy-framed type that apparently did most of the
manual labor. The sixth, the late arrival, was an elegant creature, a
bronze-skinned, green-eyed minx with an elfin face half hidden under a
wavy mass of red-brown hair. Unlike the others, she had been docked--and
in contrast to their heavy eyes and sleep-puffed features she was alert
and lively. She flashed him an impish grin, revealing clean white teeth.

Kennon smiled back. He couldn't help it. And suddenly the tension and
strangeness was broken. He felt oddly at ease. "Which of you are on
duty?" he asked.

"All of us," the redhead replied, "if it's necessary. What do you want
us to do?"

"He's already told me. He wants that last carcass prepped for a
post-mortem," the nightcall Lani said.

"Good," the redhead said. "It'll be nice to get to work again." She
turned to face Kennon. "Now, Doctor--would you like to see your office?
Old Doc left a fine collection of notes on Lani anatomy and perhaps you
could do with a little review."

"I could do with a lot of it," Kennon admitted. "Unless the inner
structure of a Lani is as similar to human as their outer."

"There are differences," the redhead admitted. "After all, we aren't
quite alike."

"Perhaps I'd better do some reading," Kennon said.

"You need me any more?" Jordan asked.

"No--I think not."

"Good. I'll get back. Frankly, I don't like this any better than Blalok
or the boss, but I'm low man on that pole. See you later."

Kennon chuckled as Jordan left. "Now, let's get ready for that cadaver,"
he said.

"Carcass, doctor," the redhead corrected. "A cadaver is a dead human
body." She accented the "human."

Even in death there is no equality, Kennon thought. He nodded and
the Lani led the way to a door which opened into a good-sized office,
liberally covered with bookshelves. An old-fashioned plastic desk, some
office cybernetics, a battered voicewriter, and a few chairs completed
the furnishings. The redhead placed several large folio volumes in front
of him and stepped back from the desk as he leafed rapidly through
the color plates. It was an excellent atlas. Dr. Williamson had been a
careful and competent workman.

Half an hour later, well fortified with a positional knowledge of
Lani viscera, Kennon looked up at the redhead. She was still standing
patiently, a statue of red-gold and bronze.

"Get a smock and let's go," he said. "No--wait a minute."

"Yes, sir?"

"What's your name? I don't want to say 'Hey you!'"

She smiled. "It's Copper Glow--want my pedigree too?"

"No--it wouldn't mean anything to me. Do they call you Copper or Glow?
or both?"

"Just Copper, sir."

"Very well, Copper--let's get going."

* * *

The body of the dead Lani lay on the steel table, waxy and yellowish in
the pitiless light of the fluorescents. She had been hardly more than a
child. Kennon felt a twinge of pity--so young--so young to die. And as
he looked he was conscious of another feeling.

It had been an open secret among his classmates that he had refused
an offer to study human medicine because of his aversion to dissecting
cadavers. The sarcoplastic models were all right, but when it came to
flesh, Kennon didn't have the stomach for it. And now, the sight of the
dead humanoid brought back the same cold sweat and gut-wrenching nausea
that had caused him to turn to veterinary medicine eight years ago.

He fought the spasms back as he approached the table and made the
external examination. Icterus and a swollen abdomen--the rest was
essentially normal. And he knew with cold certainty that he could not
lay a scalpel edge upon that cold flesh. It was too human, too like his
own.

"Are you ready, Doctor?" the Lani standing across the table from him
asked. "Shall I expose the viscera?"

Kennon's stomach froze. Of course! He should have realized! No
pathologist did his own dissection. He examined. And that he could do.
It was the tactile, not the visual sensations that upset him. He nodded.
"The abdominal viscera first," he said.

The Lani laid back the skin and musculature with bold, sure strokes.
An excellent prosectress, Kennon thought. Kennon pointed at the swollen
liver and the Lani deftly severed its attachments and laid the organ
out for inspection. The cause of death was obvious. The youngster had
succumbed to a massive liver-fluke infestation. It was the worst he
had ever seen. The bile ducts were thick, calcified and choked with
literally thousands of the gray-green leaf-shaped trematodes.

"Let's look at the others," he said.

Two more post-mortems confirmed the diagnosis. Except for minor
differences, the lesions were identical. He removed a few of the flukes
and set them aside for further study.

"Well that's that," he said. "You can clean up now."

He had found the criminal, and now the problem assumed the fascinating
qualities of a crime hunt. Now he must act to prevent further murders,
to reconstruct the crime, to find the modus operandi, to track the fluke
to its source, and to execute it before it could do more harm.

Photographs and tri-dis would have to be taken, the parasite would have
to be identified and its sensitivity to therapy determined. Studies
would have to be made on its life cycle, and the means by which it
gained entrance to its host. It wouldn't be simple, because this
trematode was probably Hepatodirus hominis, and it was tricky. It
adapted, like the species it parasitized.

Kennon leaned back from the microscope and studied the illustrations in
the parasitology text. No matter how much Hepatodirus changed its life
cycle, it could not change its adult form. The arrangements of the
suckers and genital structures were typical. Old Doc's library on
parasites was too inadequate for more than diagnosis. He would have to
wait for his own books to be uncrated before he could do more than apply
symptomatic treatment. He sighed and rose slowly to his feet. Tomorrow
was going to be a busy day.

The door opened behind him and Copper slipped quietly into the office.
She looked at him curiously, a faint half-shy smile on her face.

"What is it?" Kennon asked.

"Are you ready to fill out the autopsy protocol? It's customary."

"It's also customary to knock on a door before entering."

"Is it? Old Doc never mentioned it."

"I'm not Old Doc."

"No, you're not," she admitted. "You're much younger--and far more
beautiful. Old Doc was a fat, gray old man." She paused and eyed Kennon
appraisingly with a look on her pointed face that was the virtual twin
of Eloise's. "I think I'll like working for you if you're as nice as you
are pretty."

"You don't call a man beautiful or pretty!" Kennon exploded.

"Why not?"

"It just isn't done."

"You're a funny human," she said. "I called Old Doc beautiful, and he
didn't mind."

"That's different. He was an old man."

"What difference does that make?"

"I don't like it," Kennon said, hitting on the perfect answer.

She stiffened. "I'm sorry, Doctor. I won't do it again." She looked down
at him, head cocked sideways. "I guess I have a lot to learn about you.
You're much different from Old Doc. He didn't snap at me." She paused
for a moment, then drew a deep breath.

Kennon blinked.

"About that report," she said. "Regulations require that each
post-mortem be reported promptly and that a record of the Lani concerned
be posted in the death book together with all pertinent autopsy data.
Man Blalok is very fussy about proper records." She drew one of the
chairs to a spot beside the desk and sat down, crossed her long legs,
and waited expectantly.

Kennon's mouth was suddenly dry. This situation was impossible. How in
the name of Sir Arthur Fleming could he dictate a coldly precise report
with a naked redhead sitting beside him? "Look," he said. "I won't need
you. I can operate a voicewriter. You can pick up the material later and
transcribe it."

Her face fell. "You don't like me," she said, her green eyes filling
with quick tears. "Old Doc never--"

"Oh, damn Old Doc!" Kennon snapped. "And stop that sniveling--or get
out. Better yet--get out and stop sniveling!"

She leaped to her feet and fled.

Kennon swore. There was no reason for him to act that way. He had
been more brutal than necessary. But the girl--no, the Lani--was
disconcerting. He felt ashamed of himself. He had behaved like a
primitive rather than a member of one of the oldest human civilizations
in the galaxy. He wouldn't bark at a dog that way. He shook his head.
Probably he was tired. Certainly he was irritable, and unclad females
virtually indistinguishable from human weren't the most soothing objects
to contemplate.

He wondered if his exasperation was real or merely a defense mechanism.
First Eloise, and then this! Confound it! He was surrounded! He felt
trapped. And it wasn't because he'd been away from women too long. A
week was hardly that. He grinned as he recalled the blonde from Thule
aboard the starship. Now there was a woman, even though her ears were
pointed and her arms were too long. She didn't pressure a man. She let
him make the advances.

He grinned. That was it. He was on the defensive. He was the one who was
being pursued--and his male ego had revolted. He shrugged and turned
his attention to the autopsy report, but it was hopeless. He
couldn't concentrate. He jotted a few notes and dropped them on the
desk--tomorrow would be time enough. What he needed now was a stiff
drink and eight hours' sleep.



CHAPTER VII

Kennon stopped at Blalok's house long enough to tell the superintendent
what was causing the trouble. Blalok scowled. "We've never had flukes
here before," he said. "Why should they appear now?"

"They've been introduced," Kennon said. "The thing that bothers me is
how Dr. Williamson missed them."

"The old man was senile," Blalok said. "He was nearly blind the last six
months of his life. I wouldn't doubt that he let his assistants do most
of his work, and they could have missed them."

"Possibly, but the lesions are easy to see. At any rate, the culprit is
known now."

"Culprit?"

"Hepatodirus hominis--the human liver fluke. He's a tricky little
fellow--travels almost as far as men do."

"I'm glad it's your problem, not mine. All I can remember about flukes
is that they're hard to eradicate."

"Particularly H. hominis."

"You can tell me about it later. Right now Mr. Alexander's over at
Old--your house. Probably he's looking for you."

"Where's Jordan?"

"He went up to Station Fourteen. We'll see him tomorrow."

"I'll say good night then," Kennon said.

"I'm glad you're here. It's a load off my shoulders. See you tomorrow."
Blalok waved a friendly good night and left the lights on long enough
for Kennon to make his way to his quarters.

Alexander was seated in a heavily upholstered chair listening to a taped
symphony in the stereo, his eyes half closed, an expression of peace
on his face. An elderly Lani stood beside him. It was a comfortable
picture.

The humanoid saw Kennon and gasped, a tiny indrawn sound of surprise.
Alexander's eyes snapped open. "Oh--it's you," he said. "Don't worry,
Kara--it's your new doctor."

Kara smiled. "You startled me," she said. "I was dreaming."

"On your feet?" Alexander interjected idly.

"I should have known you at once, Doctor. There's talk about you all
over the yards, ever since you arrived."

"They know what is going on around here better than any of us,"
Alexander chuckled. "The grapevine is amazingly efficient. Well--what's
the story?"

"Liver fluke."

"Hmm--not good."

"I think it can be stopped. I looked at the records. It doesn't seem to
have been here too long."

"I hope you're right. How long will it take?"

"Several months, maybe a year, maybe more. I can't say. But I'll try to
clean it up as quickly as possible. I'm pretty sure of the fluke, and
it's a hard one to control."

"Hepatodirus?"

Kennon nodded.

"That's an offworld parasite, isn't it?"

"Yes. It originated on Santos. Parasitized the Varl originally, but
liked humans better. It's adapted to a hundred different planetary
environments, and it keeps spreading. It's a real cutie--almost
intelligent the way it behaves. But it can be licked."

"Good--get on it right away."

"I'm starting tomorrow."

"Fine--I thought you'd be the right man. Kara! Fix the doctor a drink.
We might as well have a nightcap--then I'll go back to the house and
listen to Henry and Anne's screams about poor mistreated Douglas, and
then back to Albertsville tomorrow. Duty and the credits call."

With mild surprise, Kennon realized that Alexander was drunk. Not
obnoxiously, but enough to change his character. Intoxicated, he was a
friendlier person. If there was any truth in the ancient cliche
about alcohol bringing out a man's true character, then Alexander was
basically a very nice person indeed.

"Well--here's your home for the next five years," Alexander said. "Eight
rooms, two baths, a freshener, and three Lani to keep the place running.
You've got it made."

"Perhaps--we'll see when we tackle this fluke infestation. Personally, I
don't think I'm going to have an easy time. Tomorrow I'm going to be up
to my neck in trouble trying to save your profits."

"You'll do it. I have confidence in you."

"I still think you should have hired a medic."

"This isn't all of your job," Alexander said. "And besides I can't
afford to do it. Oh--not the money, but it might be admitting that the
Lani might be human. And we've gone to a great deal of trouble to prove
they're not." He shifted uncomfortably in his chair. "There's a story
behind this."

"I wouldn't doubt it."

"Maybe it'd be better if I told it. It goes back over four centuries.
Grandfather was a clever man. After he had secured this island he
became worried about the surviving Lani. He didn't want to be accused
of genocide, since the Lani were so human in appearance. So he had his
medical officer make a few autopsies. The M.D. reported that while there
was similarity, the Lani were probably not human.

"That was enough for Grandfather. He requested a Court of Inquiry. The
court was sitting in Halsey and the hearing was private. Even so, it
leaked and Grandfather was highly unpopular for a time until the lab
reports came in. It cost him over eight hundred Ems and nearly two
years' time to finish the case, but when it was over the Lani were
declared alien, and Grandfather had ironclad discovery rights.

"They really put him through the mill. Grandfather furnished the bodies
and three court-appointed M.O.'s went through them with microscopes.
They didn't miss a thing. Their reports are so detailed that they're
classics of their kind. They're almost required reading for anyone
who wants to learn Lani structure and function. The court rendered
an interim decision that the Lani were nonhuman, and armed with this,
Grandfather prepared the final tests which were run by a team of
court-appointed medics and biologists, who made in vitro and live tests
on a number of Lani female prisoners. The tests ran for over two years
and were totally negative. So the Alexander family acquired Flora and
the Otpens, and a legal status." Alexander stood up. "Well--that's a
capsule summary. The records are in the library if you'd care to check
them."

"Why?"

"Just to prove we're honest." He moved carefully toward the door, opened
it, and disappeared into the night.

Silently Kennon watched him descend the porch steps. He seemed steady
enough. For a moment Kennon debated whether he should see him home--and
then decided against it. If Alexander needed help he'd have asked for
it. As it was, it was better to leave things alone. Certainly he didn't
know Alexander well enough to act as a guardian. He turned back to the
living area. The stereo was playing something soft and nostalgic as
Kennon sank into the chair Alexander had vacated. He let his body relax.
It had been as full a day as he had ever spent filled with changes
so abrupt that they were exhausting. He felt confused. There were no
precedents he could apply. Neither his studies nor his travels had
prepared him for living in a situation like this.

Legally and biologically the Lani weren't human. But they were
intelligent, upright, bipedal mammals whose morphology was so close to
man's that it had taken the ultimate test to settle their status. And
being a Betan, Kennon was suspicious of the accuracy of that ultimate
test.

But the Brotherhood of Man was based upon it. The feeling of unity that
pervaded mankind's expanding empire was its product. From almost the
beginning of mankind's leap to the stars it had been recognized that men
must help each other or perish. The spirit of co-operation against the
common enmity of alien worlds and cultures transcended the old petty
rivalries on Earth. Men--all men--were brothers in arms.

And so the Brotherhood was born--and the concept born of necessity
developed its muscles in a thousand battles on a thousand hostile
worlds. And ultimately it evolved into the only form of central
authority that men would accept. Yet basically it was not a government.
It was an attitude of mind. Men accepted its decisions as they would
accept the rulings of a family council, and for the same reasons.

The Brotherhood laid down certain rules but it did not attempt to
enforce them. After all, it didn't need to. It also arbitrated disputes,
admitted new worlds to membership, and organized concerted human effort
against dangerous enemies. And that was all. Yet in its sphere the
authority of the Brotherhood was absolute.


There was only one criterion for membership in the
Brotherhood--membership in the human race. No matter how decadent or
primitive a population might be, if it was human it was automatically
eligible for Brotherhood--a free and equal partner in the society of
human worlds.

Kennon doubted that any nonhuman race had ever entered the select circle
of humanity, although individuals might have done so. A docked Lani, for
instance, would probably pass unquestioned as a human, but the Lani race
would not. In consequence they and their world were fair prey, and had
been attacked and subjugated.

Of course, proof of inhumanity was seldom a problem. Most alien life
forms were obviously alien. But there were a few--like the Lani--where
similarities were so close that it was impossible to determine their
status on the basis of morphology alone. And so the Humanity Test had
come into being.

Essentially it was based upon species compatibility--on the concept that
like can interbreed with like. Tests conducted on every inhabited world
in the Brotherhood had proven this conclusively. Whatever changes had
taken place in the somatic characteristics of mankind since the Exodus,
they had not altered the compatibility of human germ plasm. Man could
interbreed with man--aliens could not. The test was simple. The results
were observable. And what was more important, everyone could understand
it. No definition of humanity could be more simple or direct.

But was it accurate?

Like other Betans, Kennon wondered. It was--so far--probably. The
qualifying phrases were those of the scientist, that strange breed that
refuses to accept anything as an established fact until it is proven
beyond a shadow of a doubt. After all, the human race had been
spaceborne for only six thousand years--scarcely time for any real
differences to develop. But physical changes had already appeared--and
it would only be a question of time before these would probably be
followed by genetic changes. And in some groups the changes might be
extensive enough to make them genetic strangers to the rest of humanity.

What would happen then? No one knew. Actually no one bothered to think
about it except for a few far-seeing men who worried as they saw.

Probably.

Might.

Possibly.

If.

Four words. But because of them the Betans were slowly withdrawing from
the rest of humanity. Already the radiations of Beta's variant-G sun had
produced changes in the population. Little things like tougher
epidermis and depilation of body hair--little things that held alarming
implications to Beta's scientists, and to Beta's people. Not too many
generations hence a Betan outside his home system would be a rarity,
and in a few millennia the Betan system itself would be a closed enclave
peopled by humans who had deviated too far from the basic stock to
mingle with it in safety.

Of course, the Brotherhood itself might be changed by that time, but
there was no assurance that this would happen. And mankind had a history
of dealing harshly with its mutants. So Beta would play it safe.

Kennon wondered if there were other worlds in the Brotherhood that had
come to the same conclusion. Possibly there were. And possibly there
were worlds where marked deviations had occurred. There wasn't a year
that passed that didn't bring some new human world into the Brotherhood,
and many of these had developed from that cultural explosion during the
First Millennium known as the Exodus, where small groups of colonists in
inadequate ships set out for unannounced goals to homestead new worlds
for man. Some of these survived, and many were being discovered even
at this late date. But so far none had any difficulty in proving their
human origin.

The Lani, conceivably, could have been descendants of one of these
groups, which probably explained the extreme care the Brotherhood
courts had taken with their case. But they had failed the test, and
were declared animals. Yet it was possible that they had mutated beyond
genetic compatibility. If they had, and if it were proved, here was a
test case that could rock the galaxy--that could shake the Brotherhood
to its very foundations--that could force a re-evaluation of the
criteria of humanity.

Kennon grinned. He was a fine employee. Here he was, less than a full
day on the job, dreaming how he could ruin his employer, shake the
foundation of human civilization, and force ten thousand billion humans
to change their comfortable habit patterns and their belief in the
unchangeable sameness of men. He was, he reflected wryly, an incurable
romantic.



CHAPTER VIII

"Wake up, Doctor, it's six A.M." A pleasant voice cut through Kennon's
slumber. He opened one eye and looked at the room. For a moment the
strange surroundings bothered him, then memory took over. He stirred
uncomfortably, looking for the owner of the voice.

"You have your morning calls at seven, and there's a full day ahead,"
the voice went on. "I'm sorry, sir, but you should get up." The voice
didn't sound particularly sorry.

It was behind him, Kennon decided. He rolled over with a groan of
protest and looked at his tormentor. A gasp of dismay left his lips,
for standing beside the bed, a half smile on her pointed face, was
Copper--looking fresh and alert and as disturbing as ever.

It wasn't right, Kennon thought bitterly, to be awakened from a sound
sleep by a naked humanoid who looked too human for comfort. "What are
you doing here?" he demanded.

"I'm supposed to be here," Copper said. "I'm your secretary." She
grinned and flexed a few curves of her torso.

Kennon was silent.

"Is there anything wrong?" she asked.

For a moment Kennon was tempted to tell her what was wrong--but he held
his tongue. She probably wouldn't understand. But there was one thing
he'd better settle right now. "Now look here, young lady--" he began.

"I'm not a lady," Copper interrupted before he could continue. "Ladies
are human. I'm a Lani."

"All right," Kennon growled. "Lani or human, who cares? But do you have
to break into a man's bedroom and wake him in the middle of the night?"

"I didn't break in," she said, "and it isn't the middle of the night.
It's morning."

"All right--so it's morning and you didn't break in. Then how in
Halstead's sacred name did you get here?"


"I sleep next door," she said jerking a thumb in the direction of an
open door in the side wall. "I've been there ever since you dismissed me
last night," she explained.

The explanation left Kennon cold. The old cliche about doing as the
Santosians do flicked through his mind. Well, perhaps he would in
time--but not yet. The habits of a lifetime couldn't be overturned
overnight. "Now you have awakened me," he said, "perhaps you'll get out
of here."

"Why?"

"I want to get dressed."

"I'll help you."

"You will not! I'm perfectly capable of taking care of myself. I've been
dressing myself for years. I'm not used to people helping me."

"My--what a strange world you must come from. Haven't you ever had a
Lani before?"

"No."

"You poor man." Her voice was curiously pitying. "No one to make you
feel like the gods. No one to serve you. No one to even scrub your
back."

"That's enough," Kennon said. "I can scrub my own back."

"How?--you can't reach it."

Kennon groaned.

"Weren't there any Lani on your world?"

"No."

"No wonder you left it. It must be quite primitive."

"Primitive!" Kennon's voice was outraged. "Beta has one of the highest
civilizations in the Brotherhood!"

"But you don't have Lani," she said patiently. "So you must be
primitive."

"Halstead, Fleming, and Ochsner!" Kennon swore. "Do you believe that?"

"Naturally, isn't it obvious? You can't possibly be civilized unless you
take responsibility for intelligent life other than your own race.
Until you face up to your responsibilities you are merely a member of a
dominant race, not a civilized one."

Kennon's reply caught in his throat. His eyes widened as he looked at
her, and what he was about to say remained unspoken. "Out of the mouths
of humanoids--" he muttered oddly.

"What does that mean?" Copper asked.

"Forget it," Kennon said wildly. "Leave me alone. Go put on some
clothes. You embarrass me."

"I'll go," Copper said, "but you'll have to be embarrassed. Only
household Lani wear cloth." She frowned, two vertical furrows dividing
her dark brows. "I've never understood why inhouse Lani have to be
disfigured that way, but I suppose there's some reason for it. Men
seldom do anything without a reason."

Kennon shook his head. Either she was grossly ignorant, which he
doubted, or she was conditioned to the eyeballs.

The latter was more probable. But even that was doubtful. Her trenchant
remark about civilization wasn't the product of a conditioned mind. But
why was he worrying about her attitudes? They weren't important--she
wasn't even human. He shook his head. That was a sophistry. The fact
that she wasn't human had nothing to do with the importance of her
attitude. "I suppose there is a reason," he agreed. "But I don't know
it. I haven't been here long enough to know anything about such things."

She nodded. "That does make a difference," she admitted. "Many new
men are bothered at first by the fact that we Lani are naked, but they
adjust quickly. So will you." She smiled as she turned away. "You see,"
she added over her shoulder as she left the room, "we're not human.
We're just another of your domestic animals."

Was there laughter in her voice? Kennon wasn't sure. His sigh was
composed of equal parts of relief and exasperation as he slipped out of
bed and began to dress. He'd forgo the shower this morning. He had no
desire for Copper to appear and offer to scrub his back. In his present
state of mind he couldn't take it. Possibly he'd get used to it in time.
Perhaps he might even like it. But right now he wasn't acclimatized.

* * *

"Man Blalok called," Copper said as she removed the breakfast dishes.
"He said that he'd be right over to pick you up. He wants to show you
the operation." "When did he call?"

"About ten minutes ago. I told him that you were at breakfast. He said
he'd wait." She disappeared in the direction of the kitchen.

"There's a nightmare quality to this," Kennon muttered as he slipped his
arms into the sleeves of his tunic and closed the seam tabs. "I have
the feeling that I'm going to wake up any minute." He looked at his
reflection in the dresser mirror, and his reflection looked worriedly
back. "This whole thing has an air of plausible unreality: the
advertisement, the contract, this impossible island that raises
humanoids as part of the livestock." He shrugged and his mirrored image
shrugged back. "But it's real, all right. No dream could possibly be
this detailed. I wonder how I'm going to take it for the next five
years? Probably not too well," he mused silently. "Already I'm talking
to myself. Without even trying, that Lani Copper can make me feel like a
Sarkian." He nodded at his image.

The Sarkian analogy was almost perfect, he decided. For on that grimly
backward world females were as close to slaves as the Brotherhood would
permit; raised from birth under an iron regimen designed to produce
complaisant mates for the dominant males. Probably that was the reason
Sark was so backward. The men, having achieved domestic tranquillity,
had no desire to do anything that would disturb the status quo. And
since no Sarkian woman under any conceivable circumstances would annoy
her lordly master with demands to produce better mousetraps, household
gadgetry, and more money, the technological development of Sark had come
to a virtual standstill. It took two sexes to develop a civilization.

Kennon shrugged. Worlds developed as they did because people were as
they were, and while passing judgment was still a major human pursuit,
no native of one world had a right to force his customs down the
unwilling throat of another. It would be better to accept his present
situation and live with it rather than trying to impose his Betan
conception of morality upon Lani that neither understood nor appreciated
it. His business was to treat and prevent animal disease. What happened
to the animals before infection or after recovery was none of his
affair. That was a matter between Alexander and his conscience.

Blalok was waiting for him, sitting behind the wheel of a square boxy
vehicle that squatted with an air of unpolished efficiency on the
graveled drive behind his house. He smiled a quick greeting as Kennon
approached. "It's about time you showed up," he said. "You'll have to
get into the habit of rising early on this place. We do most of our work
early in the morning and late in the afternoon. During the day it's too
hot to breathe, let alone work. Well, let's get going. There's still
time to visit the outer stations."

Kennon climbed in and Blalok started the vehicle. "I thought we'd take a
jeep today," he said. "They aren't very pretty, but they get around." He
turned onto the surfaced road that ran down the hill toward the hospital
and the complex of red-roofed buildings clustered about it. "About those
flukes," he said. "You have any plans to get rid of them?"

"Not yet. I'll have to look the place over. There's more detective work
than medicine involved in this."

"Detective work?"

"Sure--we know the criminal, but to squelch him we have to learn his
hangouts, study his modus operandi, and learn how to make his victims
secure from his activities. Unless we do that, we can treat individuals
from now to infinity and all we'll have is more cases. We have to apply
modern criminology tactics--eliminate the source of crime--stop up the
soft spots. In other words, kill the flukes before they enter the Lani."

"Old Doc never said anything about this," Blalok said.

"Probably he never knew about it. I was looking over the herd books last
night, and I saw nothing about trematodes, or anything that looked like
a parasite pattern until the last few months."

"Why not?"

"My guess is that he was one of the first deaths."

"You mean this thing attacks human beings?"

"Preferentially," Kennon said. "It's strange, too, because it originated
on Santos so far as we know. In fact, some people think that the Varl
bred it for a weapon to use against us before we conquered them. They
could have done it. Their biological science was of a high enough
order."

"But how did it get here?"

"I wouldn't know--unless you've hired a Santosian or someone else who
was affected."

"We did have a man from Santos. Fellow called Joe Kryla. We had to let
him go because he was a nudist. It made a bad impression on the Lani.
But that was over a year ago."

"That's about the right time to build up a good reservoir of infection.
The fatal cases usually don't show up before an area is pretty well
seeded."

"That's not so good."

"Well, there's one thing in our favor. The Lani are pretty well
concentrated into groups. And so far there doesn't seem to be any
infestation outside of Hillside Station--except for two deaths in Lani
recently sent from there. If we quarantine those stations and work fast,
may be we can stop this before it spreads all over the island."

"That's fine, but what are you going to do now?"

"Treat those that show symptoms. There should be some Trematox capsules
at the hospital. If there aren't we'll get them. We'll take the
sick ones back to the hospital area and push therapy and supportive
treatment. Now that we know the cause, we shouldn't have any more death
losses."

"Old Doc didn't treat at the hospital," Blalok said.

"I'm not Old Doc."

"But it's going to mess up our operations. We're using the ward
buildings to finish training the Lani scheduled for market."

"Why?"

"It's convenient. Most of the ward space is filled right now." Blalok
said. There was a touch of disgust in his voice.

"They're well, aren't they?" Kennon demanded.

"Of course."

"Then get them out of there."

"But I told you-"

"You told me nothing. The hospital area is needed for something more
than a training center. Perhaps Old Doc was trained in outcall work, but
I'm not. I work from a hospital. The only things I do on outcalls are
diagnoses, vaccinations, and emergencies. The rest of the patients come
to the hospital."

"This isn't going to set well with Jordan and the division chiefs."

"That's not my concern," Kennon said. "I run my business in the best way
possible. The patients are of more concern than the personal comfort of
any straw boss or administrator. You're the administrator--you calm them
down."

"You have the authority," Blalok admitted. "But my advice to you is to
go slow."

"I can't," Kennon said. "Not if we want to prevent any more losses.
There simply won't be time to run all over the island dosing with
Trematox and taking temperatures, and while that sort of thing is
routine, it should be supervised. Besides, you'll see the advantages of
this method. Soon enough."

"I hope so," Blalok said as he braked the jeep to a stop in front of the
hospital. "I suppose you'll want to take some things along."

"So I will," Kennon said. "I'll be back in a minute." Kennon slid from
the seat, leaving Blalok looking peculiarly at his departing back.

The minute stretched to nearly ten before Kennon returned followed by
two Lani carrying bags which they loaded into the back of the jeep.
"I had to reorganize a little," Kennon apologized, "some things were
unfamiliar."

"Plan on taking them?" Blalok said, jerking a thumb at the two Lani.

"Not this time. I'm having them fit up an ambulance. They should be busy
most of the day."

Blalok grunted and started the turbine. He moved a lever and the jeep
floated off the ground.

"An airboat too," Kennon remarked. "I wondered why this rig was so
boxy."

"It's a multipurpose vehicle," Blalok said. "We need them around here
for fast transport. Most of the roads aren't so good." He engaged the
drive and the jeep began to move. "We'll go cross country," he said.
"Hillside's pretty far out--the farthest station since we abandoned
Olympus."

The air began whistling past the boxlike body of the jeep as Blalok
increased the power to the drive and set the machine on automatic.
"We'll get a pretty good cross-section of our operations on this trip,"
he said over the whine of the turbine. "Look down there."

They were passing across a series of fenced pastures and Kennon was
impressed. The size of this operation was beginning to sink in. It
hadn't looked so big from the substratosphere in Alexander's ship, but
down here close to the ground it was enormous. Fields of grain, wide
orchards, extensive gardens. Once they were forced to detour a huge
supply boat that rose heavily in front of them. Working in the fields
were dozens of brown-skinned Lani who paused to look up and wave as
the jeep sped by. Occasional clusters of farm buildings and the low
barrackslike stations appeared and disappeared behind them.

"There's about twenty Lani at each of these stations," Blalok said,
"They work the farm area under the direction of the stationmaster."

"He's a farmer?"

"Of course. Usually he's a graduate of an agricultural school, but we
have a few who are descendants of the crew of the first Alexander, and
there's one old codger who was actually with him during the conquest.
Most of our stationmasters are family men. We feel that a wife and
children add to a man's stability--and incidentally keep him from
fooling around with the Lani."

A series of fenced pastures containing hundreds of huge grayish-white
quadrupeds slipped past.

"Cattle?" Kennon asked.

"Yes--Earth strain. That's why they're so big. We also have sheep and
swine, but you won't see them on this run."

"Any native animals?"

"A few--and some which are native to other worlds. But they're
luxury-trade items. The big sale items are beef, pork, and mutton."
Blalok chuckled. "Did you think that the Lani were our principal
export?"


Kennon nodded.

"They're only a drop in the bucket. Agriculture--Earth-style
agriculture--is our main source of income. The Lani are valuable
principally to keep down the cost of overhead. Virtually all of them
work right here on the island. We don't sell more than a hundred a year
less than five per cent of our total. And those are surplus--too light
or too delicate for farm work."

"Where do you find a market for all this produce?" Kennon asked.

"There's two hundred million people here, and quite a few billion more
in space-train range. We can produce more cheaply than any competitor,
and we can undersell any competition, even full automation." Blalok
chuckled. "There are some things that a computer can't do as well as
a human being, and one of them is farm the foods on which humanity is
accustomed to feed. A man'll pay two credits for a steak. He could get a
Chlorella substitute for half a credit, but he'll still buy the steak
if he can afford it. Same thing goes for fruit, vegetables, grain, and
garden truck. Man's eating habits have only changed from necessity.
Those who can pay will still pay well for natural foods." Blalok
chuckled. "We've put quite a dent in the algae and synthetics operations
in this sector."

"It's still a luxury trade," Kennon said.

"You've eaten synthetic," Blalok replied. "What do you prefer?"

Kennon had to agree that Blalok was right. He, too, liked the real thing
far better than its imitations.

"If it's this profitable, then why sell Lani?" Kennon asked.

"It's the Family's idea. Actually--since the export type is surplus it
does us no harm. We keep enough for servants--and the others would be
inefficient for most farm work. So disposal by sale is a logical and
profitable way of culling. But now the Boss-man is being pressured into
breeding an export type. And this I don't like. It's too commercial.
Smells like slavery."

"You're a Mystic, aren't you?" Kennon asked.

"Sure--but that doesn't mean I like slavery. Oh, I know some of those
fatheaded Brotherhood economists call our system economic slavery--and
I'll admit that it's pretty hard to crack out of a spherical trust.
But that doesn't mean that we have to stay where we are. Mystics aren't
owned by their entrepreneurs. Sure, it's a tough haul to beat the
boss, but it can be done. I did it, and others do it all the time. The
situation isn't hopeless."

"But it is with the Lani," Kennon added.

"Of course. That's why they should be protected. What chance does a
Lani have? Without us they can't even keep going as a race. They're
technological morons. They don't live long enough to understand modern
civilization. To turn those poor helpless humanoids out into human
society would be criminal. It's our duty to protect them even while
we're using them."

"Man's burden?' Kennon said, repeating the old cliche.

"Exactly." Blalok scowled. "I wish I had guts enough to give the
Boss-man the facts--but I can't get nerve enough to try. I've a good job
here--a wife and two kids--and I don't want to jeopardize my future."
Blalok glanced over the side. "Well, here we are," he said, and began
descending into the center of a spokelike mass of buildings radiating
outward from a central hub.

"Hmm--big place," Kennon murmured.

"It should be," Blalok replied. "It furnishes all of our Lani for
replacement and export. It can turn out over a thousand a year at
full capacity. Of course we don't run at that rate, or Flora would be
overpopulated. But this is a big layout, like you said. It can maintain
a population of at least forty thousand. Old Alexander had big ideas."

"I wonder what he planned to do with them?" Kennon said.

"I wouldn't know. The Old Man never took anyone into his confidence."

Jordan came up as the jeep settled to the ground. "Been expecting you
for the past half hour," he said. "Your office said you were on your
way.--Good to see you, too, Doc. I've been going over the records with
Hank Allworth--the stationmaster here." Jordan held out his hand.

"You're an Earthman, eh?" Kennon asked as he grasped the outstretched
hand. The gesture was as old as man, its ritualistic meaning lost in
antiquity.

"No--Marsborn--a neighbor world," Jordan said. "But our customs and
Earth's are the same."

"You're a long way from home," Kennon said.

"No farther than you, Doc." Jordan looked uncomfortable. "But we can
compare origins later. Right now, you'd better come into the office.
I've run across something peculiar."



CHAPTER IX

"There are twelve bays to this station," Jordan said. "Under our present
setup two are used for breeding and the other ten for maturation. We
rotate the youngsters around the bay--a different bay each year until
they're age eleven. Then they're sorted according to type and sent out
for a year of further specialized training after which they go onto the
farms, or to inhouse or export.

"Now here's the peculiar part. There's no trouble in Bays One through
Nine, but Bay Ten has had all our losses except two that have occurred
at the training stations."

"That's good news," Kennon said. "Our parasite can't have had time to
migrate too far. We have him pinpointed unless--say how many training
centers are there?"

"Three," Jordan said.

"Quarantine them," Kennon replied. "Right now. Nothing goes in or out
until we've checked them and completed prophylaxis."

Jordan looked at Blalok inquiringly.

"He's the boss," Blalok said. "Do as you're told. This is his problem."

"Why the quarantine?" Jordan asked.

"I want to get any carriers. We can check them with antigen, and then
give Trematox."

"All that concentration in Bay Ten," Jordan said. "Does it mean
something?"

"Blalok said that there was a Santosian in your division."

"Yeah--Joe Kryla--and come to think of it, he ran Bay Ten!"

"That's a help--now let's see what makes that bay different from the
others."

"Why?"

"I'll tell you--but you may not understand," Kennon said.

"I'll take a chance."

Kennon grinned. "All right, you asked for it. The parasite that's doing
the damage is a flatworm, a trematode called Hepatodirus hominis. As
I've told Blalok, it's a tricky thing. Like all trematodes it has a
three-stage life cycle, but unlike every other fluke, its life cycle is
not fixed to definite intermediate hosts. Depending upon where it is,
the fluke adapts. It still must pass through its life cycle, but its
intermediate host need not be one species of snail, fish, or copepod.
Any cold-blooded host will do. What you have here is a Kardonian variant
which has adapted to some particular intermediate host on this world.
Until now, its final host was either man or Varl. Now we have a third,
the Lani. And apparently they are the most susceptible of the three.
It never kills Varl. And humans, while they're more susceptible, only
occasionally succumb, but the Lani appear to be the most susceptible of
all. I've never seen an infestation like those Lani had. Their livers
were literally crawling with flukes." Kennon paused and looked at
Jordan. "You following me?" he asked.

"Slowly and poorly," Jordan said. "You're assuming too much knowledge on
my part."

Kennon chuckled. "You can't say I didn't warn you."

"Well--I'm really interested in only one thing--how do you break the
parasite up in business?"

"There's only one sure way--and that's to break the life cycle. The
technique is thousands of years old, but it's just as good today as it
was then."

"Good--then let's do it."

"To make a varrit stew," Kennon said, "one must first catch the varrit."

"Huh?"

"We have to learn the beastie's life cycle before we can break it,
and like I said, it adapts. Its intermediate host can be any one of a
hundred cold-blooded animals."

"Is there no place else where it can be attacked?"

"Sure, in the body of the final host, or on its final encysting place.
But that won't eliminate the bug."

"Why not?"

"It'll still survive in its infective form and enough Lani will get
subacute dosage to propagate it until the time is right for another
epizootic. We have to kill its intermediate host--or hosts if it has
more than one. That will keep it from growing and will ultimately
eradicate it."

Judson scratched his head. "It sounds complicated."

"It is. It's so complicated that once the fluke becomes well established
it's virtually impossible to eradicate."

"And you think it can be done here?"

"We can give it the old college try. But it's going to take some
detective work."

"Where do we start?"

"With Bay Ten. We look it over real well. Then we check the diet and
habits of the Lani. Then we check each individual Lani. Then we check
the life cycle of the parasite. Somewhere along the line if we're lucky
we'll find a weak point that can be attacked."

"That's a big order," Blalok said.

"It can't be helped. That's the way it is. Of course, we're lucky that
we're on an isolated land mass. That gives us an advantage. We should be
able to clean this up."

"How long do you think it will take?"

"It depends on how well the fluke is established. Six months at the
minimum--and I wouldn't care to guess at the maximum. However, I hope
the minimum will be time enough."

"So do I," Blalok said.

"Well," Kennon said, "let's get on with it."

"I hope it won't interrupt our program," Jordan said.

"Of course it will interrupt it," Kennon replied. "It can't help it. Get
the idea in your head that you're facing something here that can cripple
you--maybe abort your whole operation. You have a choice--interrupt now
or abort later. And half measures won't work. To eradicate this pest
requires an all-out effort."

"But I can't see why we can't merely bypass Bay Ten--" Jordan said.

"Take my word for it," Kennon said. "You can't. There's no accurate way
of telling how far this spreads until the death losses occur. Our tests
for fluke infestation aren't that good. We have to work thoroughly and
carefully. We can't be butting heads over this--either we all co-operate
or this whole operation will blow up in our faces.

"Look at the record. Six months ago you ended a year with no deaths from
disease. Five months ago Old Doc and two Lani were ill. Four months ago
one of the two Lani was dead and Old Doc was too ill to be effective.
Three months ago Old Doc and the other Lani were dead, and before the
end of the month two more followed them. Two months ago six died, last
month eight, and so far this month you've lost four and you have over
two weeks to go. Up to now they've all been from here, but two this
month were at other stations. In six months if nothing is done, we'll
be having losses there unless we're lucky. And the losses will keep
on increasing. Apparently you don't know what it is to live with
parasites--so let me tell you. It isn't pleasant!"

Blalok shrugged. "You needn't get hot about it," he said. "After all,
you're the Doc--and we'll co-operate."

Jordan nodded. "We will," he said. "All the way."



CHAPTER X

There is a special providence that looks over recent veterinary
graduates, Kennon reflected as he checked the monthly reports from the
Stations. Since the time he had laid down the law to Judson and Blalok,
he had had no trouble from the production staff. And for the past four
months there had been no further trouble with Hepatodirus. That unwanted
visitor had apparently been evicted. At that, they had been lucky. The
parasite had been concentrated at Hillside Station and had failed to
establish itself in the training area. The intermediate host, it had
turned out, was a small amphibian that was susceptible to commercial
insecticide. It had been no trouble to eradicate. Systemic treatment and
cooking of all food had cleaned up the infective cercaria and individual
infections, and after six months of intensive search, quarantine, and
investigation, Kennon was morally certain that the disease had been
eradicated. The last four reports confirmed his belief.

He sighed as he leaned back in his chair. Blalok was at last convinced
that his ideas were right. The hospital was operating as a hospital
should, with a staff of twelve Lani kept busy checking the full wards.
Actually, it was working better than it should, since stationmasters all
over the island were now shipping in sick animals rather than treating
them or requesting outpatient service.

"Hi, Doc," Blalok said as he pushed the door open and looked into the
office. "You doing anything?"

"Not at the moment," Kennon said. "Something troubling you?"

"No--just thought I'd drop in for a moment and congratulate you."

"For what?"

"For surviving the first year."

"That won't be for two months yet."

Blalok shook his head. "This is Kardon," he said. "There's only three
hundred and two days in our year, ten thirty-day months and two special
days at the year's end."

Kennon shrugged. "My contract is Galactic Standard. I still have two
months to go. But how come the ten-month year? Most other planets have
twelve, regardless of the number of days."

"Old Alexander liked thirty-day months."

"I've wondered about that."

"You'll find a lot more peculiar things about Flora when you get to know
her better. This year has just been a breaking-in period."

Kennon chuckled. "It's damn near broken me," he admitted. "You know, I
thought that the Lani'd be my principal practice when I came here."

"You didn't figure that right. They're the easiest part. They're
intelligent and co-operative."

"Which is more than one can say about the others." Kennon wiped the
sweat from his face. "What with this infernal heat and their eternal
stubbornness, I've nearly been driven crazy."

"You shouldn't have laid out that vaccination program."

"I had to. Your hog business was living mostly on luck, and the sheep
and shrakes were almost as bad. You can't get away from soil saprophytes
no matter how clean you are. Under a pasture setup there's always
a chance of contamination. And that old cliche about an ounce of
prevention is truer of livestock raising than anything else I can think
of."

"I have some more good news for you," Blalok said. "That's why I came
over. We're going to have another species to treat and vaccinate."

Kennon groaned. "Now what?"

"Poultry." Blalok's voice was disgusted. "Personally I think it's a
mess, but Alexander thinks it's profitable. Someone's told him that
pound for pound chickens are the most efficient feed converters of all
the domestic animals. So we're getting a pilot plant: eggs, incubator,
and a knocked-down broiler battery so we can try the idea out.
The Boss-man is always hot on new ideas to increase efficiency and
production. The only trouble is that he fails to consider the work
involved in setting up another operation."

"You're so right. I'll have to brush up on pullorum, ornithosis,
coccidosis, leukosis, perosis, and Ochsner knows how many other-osises
and--itises. I was never too strong on fowl practice in school, and I'd
be happier if I never had anything to do with them."

"So would I," Blalok agreed. "I can't see anything in this but trouble."

Kennon nodded.

"And he's forgotten something else," Blalok added. "Poultry need
concentrated feed. We're going to have to install a feed mill."

Kennon chuckled. "I hope he'll appreciate the bill he gets."

"He thinks we can use local labor," Blalok said gloomily. "I wish he'd
realize that Lani are technological morons."

"They could learn."

"I suppose so--but it isn't easy. And besides, Allworth is the only man
with feed-mill experience, and he's up to his ears with Hillside Station
since that expansion order came in."

"I never did get the reason for that. After we complained about the
slavery implications and got the Boss-man's okay to hold the line, why
do we need more Lani?"

"Didn't you know? His sister's finally decided to try marriage. Found
herself some overmuscled Halsite who looked good to her--but she
couldn't crack his moral barrier." Blalok grinned. "I thought you'd be
the first to know. Wasn't she interested in you?"

Kennon chuckled. "You could call it that. Interested--like the way a
dog's interested in a beefsteak. It's a good thing we had that fluke
problem or I'd have been chewed up and digested long ago. That woman
frightens me."

"I could be scared by uglier things," Blalok said. "With the Boss-man's
sister on my side I wouldn't worry."

"What makes you think she'd be on my side? She's a cannibal."

"Well, you know her better than I do."

He did--he certainly did. That first month had been one of the worst he
had ever spent, Kennon reflected. Between Eloise and the flukes, he had
nearly collapsed--and when it had come to the final showdown, he thought
for a while that he'd be looking for another job. But Alexander had been
more than passably understanding and had refused his sister's passionate
pleas for a Betan scalp. He owed a debt of gratitude to the Boss-man.

"You're lucky you never knew her," Kennon said.

"That all depends on what you mean," Blalok said as he grinned and
walked to the door. The parting shot missed its mark entirely as Kennon
looked at him with blank incomprehension. "You should have been a
Mystic," Blalok said. "A knowledge of the sacred books would do you no
end of good." And with that cryptic remark the superintendent vanished.

"That had all the elements of a snide remark," Kennon murmured to
himself, "but my education's been neglected somewhere along the line. I
don't get it." He shrugged and buzzed for Copper. The veterinary report
would have to be added to the pile already before him, and the Boss-man
liked to have his reports on time.

Copper watched Kennon as he dictated the covering letter, her slim
fingers dancing over the stenotype. He had been here a full year--but
instead of becoming a familiar object, he had grown so gigantic that
he filled her world. And it wasn't merely because he was young and
beautiful. He was kind, too.

Yet she couldn't approach him, and she wanted to so desperately that
it was a physical pain. Other Lani had told her about men and what they
could do. Even her old preceptress at Hillside Station had given her
some advice when Man Allworth had tattooed the tiny V on her thigh that
meant she had been selected for the veterinary staff. And when Old Doc
had brought her from the Training Station to the hospital and removed
her tail, she was certain that she was one of the lucky ones who would
know love.

But love wasn't a pain in the chest, an ache in the belly and thighs, an
unfulfilled longing that destroyed sleep and made food tasteless. Love
was supposed to be pleasant and exciting. She could remember every word
her preceptress had spoken.

"My little one," the old Lani had said, "you now wear the doctor's mark.
And soon no one will be able to tell you from a human. You will look
like our masters. You will share in their work. And there may be times
when you will find favor in their eyes. Then you may learn of love.

"Love," the old voice was soft in Copper's ears. "The word is almost a
stranger to us now, known only to the few who serve our masters. It was
not always so. The Old Ones knew love before Man Alexander came. And
our young were the fruit of love rather than the product of our masters'
cunning. But you may know the flower even though you cannot bear its
fruit. You may enter that world of pleasure-pain the Old Ones knew, that
world which is now denied us.

"But remember always that you are a Lani. A man may be kind to you. He
may treat you gently. He may show you love. Yet you never will be his
equal. Nor must you become too attached to him, for you are not human.
You are not his natural mate. You cannot bear his young. You cannot
completely share. You can only accept.

"So if love should come to you, take it and enjoy it, but do not try to
possess it. For there lies heartache rather than happiness. And it is
a world of heartache, my little one, to long for something which you
cannot have."

To long for something which one cannot have! Copper knew that feeling.
It had been with her ever since Kennon had come into her life that
night a year ago. And it had grown until it had become gigantic. He
was kind--yes. He was harsh--occasionally. Yet he had shown her no more
affection than he would have shown a dog. Less--for he would have petted
a dog and he did not touch her.

He laughed, but she was not a part of his laughter. He needed her, but
the need was that of a builder for a tool. He liked her and sometimes
shared his problems and triumphs with her, and sometimes his defeats,
but he did not love. There had never been for her the bright fierce look
he had bent upon the Woman Eloise those times when she had come to him,
the look men gave to those who found favor in their eyes.

Had he looked at her but once with that expression she would have come
to him though fire barred the way. The Woman Eloise was a fool.

Copper looked at him across the corner of the desk, the yellow hair, the
bronze skin, firm chin, soft lips and long straight nose, the
narrowed eyes, hooded beneath thick brows, scanning the papers in his
lean-tendoned hands. His nearness was an ache in her body--yet he was
far away.

She thought of how his hands would feel upon her. He had touched her
once, and that touch had burned like hot iron. For hours she had felt
it. He looked up. Her heart choked her with its beating. She would die
for him if he would but once run his fingers over her tingling skin, and
stroke her hair.

The naked emotion in Copper's face was readable enough, Kennon thought.
One didn't need Sorovkin techniques to interpret what was in her mind.
And it would have been amusing if it weren't so sad. For what she
wanted, he couldn't give. Yet if she were human it would be easy. A
hundred generations of Betan moral code said "never," yet when he looked
at her their voices faded. He was a man--a member of the ruling race.
She was an animal--a beast--a humanoid--near human but not near enough.
To like her was easy--but to love her was impossible. It would be
bestiality. Yet his body, less discerning than his mind, responded to
her nearness.

He sighed. It was a pleasant unpleasantness, a mixed emotion he could
not analyze. In a way it was poetry--the fierce, vaguely disquieting
poetry of the sensual Santosian bards--the lyrics that sung of the joys
of flesh. He had never really liked them, yet they filled him with a
vague longing, an odd uneasiness--just the sort that filled him now.
There was a deadly parallel here. He sighed.

"Yes, sir? Do you want something?" Copper asked.

"I could use a cup of coffee," he said. "These reports are getting me
down." The banality amused him--sitting here thinking of Copper and
talking about coffee. Banality was at once the curse and the saving
grace of mankind. It kept men from the emotional peaks and valleys that
could destroy them. He chuckled shakily. The only alternative would be
to get rid of her--and he couldn't (or wouldn't?--the question intruded
slyly) do that.

Copper returned with a steaming cup which she set before him. Truly,
this coffee was a man's drink. She had tried it once but the hot
bitterness scalded her mouth and flooded her body with its heat. And she
had felt so lightheaded. Not like herself at all. It wasn't a drink for
Lani. Of that she was certain.

Yet he enjoyed it. He looked at her and smiled. He was pleased with
her. Perhaps--yet--she might find favor in his eyes. The hope was always
there within her--a hope that was at once fear and prayer. And if she
did--she would know what to do.

Kennon looked up. Copper's face was convulsed with a bright mixture of
hope and pain. Never, he swore, had he saw anything more beautiful or
sad. Involuntarily he placed his hand upon her arm. She flinched, her
muscles tensing under his finger tips. It was though his fingers carried
a galvanic current that backlashed up his arm even as it stiffened hers.

"What's the matter, Copper?" he asked softly.

"Nothing, Doctor. I'm just upset."

"Why?"

There it was again, the calm friendly curiosity that was worse than a
bath in ice water. Her heart sank. She shivered. She would never find
her desire here. He was cold--cold--cold! He wouldn't see. He didn't
care. All right--so that was how it had to be. But first she would tell
him. Then he could do with her as he wished. "I hoped--for the past year
that you would see me. That you would think of me not as a Lani, but as
a beloved." The words came faster now, tumbling over one another. "That
you would desire me and take me to those worlds we cannot know unless
you humans show us. I have hoped so much, but I suppose it's wrong--for
you--you are so very human, and I--well, I'm not!" The last three words
held all the sadness and the longing of mankind aspiring to be God.

"My dear--my poor child," Kennon murmured.

She looked at him, but her eyes could not focus on his face, for his
hands were on her shoulders and the nearness of him drove the breath
from her body. From a distance she heard a hard tight voice that was her
own. "Oh, sir--oh please, sir!"

The hands withdrew, leaving emptiness--but her heartbeat slowed and the
pink haze cleared and she could see his face.

And with a surge of terror and triumph she realized what she saw! That
hard bright look that encompassed and possessed her! The curved lips
drawn over white, white teeth! The flared nostrils! The hungry demand
upon his face that answered the demand in her heart! And she knew--at
last--with a knowledge that turned her limbs to water, that she had
found favor in his eyes!



CHAPTER XI

Mixed emotion! Ha! The author of that cliche didn't even know its
meaning! Kennon strode furiously down the dusty road toward Station One
trying to sublimate his inner conflict into action. It was useless, of
course, for once he stopped moving the grim tug-of-war between training
and desire would begin again, and no matter how it ended the result
would be unsatisfactory. As long as he had been able to delude himself
that he was fond of Copper the way a man is fond of some lesser species,
it had been all right. But he knew now that he was fond of her as a man
is of a woman--and it was hell! For no rationalization in the universe
would allow him to define her as human. Copper was humanoid--something
like human. And to live with her and love her would not be
miscegenation, which was bad enough, but bestiality which was a thousand
times worse.

Although throughout most of the Brotherhood miscegenation was an unknown
word, and even bestiality had become a loose definition on many worlds
with humanoid populations, the words had definite meaning and moral
force to a Betan. And--God help him--he was a Betan. A lifetime of
training in a moral code that frowned upon mixed marriages and shrank
appalled from even the thought of mixing species was nothing to bring
face to face with the fact that he loved Copper.

It was odd, Kennon reflected bitterly, that humans could do with animals
what their customs and codes prohibited them from doing to themselves.
For thousands of years--back to the very dawn of history when men had
bred horses and asses to produce mules--men had been mixing species
to produce useful hybrids. Yet a Betan who could hybridize plants or
animals with complete equanimity shrank with horror from the thought of
applying the same technique to himself.

What was there about a human being that was so sacrosanct? He shook his
head angrily. He didn't know. There was no answer. But the idea--the
belief--was there, ingrained into his attitudes, a part of his outlook,
built carefully block by block from infancy until it now towered into a
mighty wall that barred him from doing what he wished to do.

It would be an easier hurdle if he had been born anywhere except on
Beta. In the rest of the Brotherhood, the color of a man's skin, the
shape of his face, the quality and color of his hair and eyes made no
difference. All men were brothers. But on Beta, where a variant-G sun
had already caused genetic divergence, the brotherhood of man was a term
that was merely given lip service. Betans were different and from birth
they were taught to accept the difference and to live with it. Mixing of
Betan stock with other human species, while not actually forbidden, was
so encircled with conditioning that it was a rare Betan indeed who would
risk self-opprobrium and the contempt of his fellows to mate with an
outsider. And as for humanoids--Kennon shuddered. He couldn't break the
attitudes of a lifetime. Yet he loved Copper.

And she knew he did!

And that was an even greater horror. He had fled from the office, from
the glad light in her eyes, as a burned child flees fire. He needed time
to think, time to plan. Yet his body and his surface thoughts wanted no
plans or time. Living with a Lani wasn't frowned upon on Flora. Many of
the staff did, nor did anyone seem to think less of them for doing
so. Even Alexander himself had half-confessed to a more than platonic
affection for a Lani called Susy.

Yet this was no excuse, nor would it silence the cold still voice in his
mind that kept repeating sodomite--sodomite--sodomite with a passionless
inflection that was even more terrible than anger.

The five kilometers to Station One disappeared unnoticed beneath his
feet as he walked, and he looked up in surprise to see the white walls
and red roofs of the station looming before him.

"Good Lord! Doc! What's got into you?" the stationmaster said. "You
look like you'd seen a ghost. And out in this sun without a helmet! Come
inside, man, before you get sunstroke!"

Kennon chuckled without humor. "Getting sunstroke is the least of my
worries, Al," he said, but he allowed Al Crothers to usher him inside.

"It's odd that you showed up right now," Al said, his dark face showing
the curiosity that filled him. "I just had a call from Message Center
not five minutes ago, telling me to have you call in if you showed up."


Kennon sighed. "On this island you can't get away from the phone," he
said wryly. "O.K., where is it?"

"You look pretty bushed, Doc. Maybe you'd better rest awhile."

"And maybe it's an emergency," Kennon interrupted. "And probably it is
because the staff can handle routine matters--so maybe you'd better show
me where you keep the phone."

* * *

"One moment please," the Message Center operator said. There were a few
clicks in the background. "Here's your party," she continued. "Go ahead,
Doctor."

"Kennon?" a nervous voice crackled from the receiver.

"Yes?"

"You're needed out on Otpen One."

"Who is calling--and what's the rush?"

"Douglas--Douglas Alexander. The Lani are dying! It's an emergency!
Cousin Alex'll skin us alive if we let these Lani die!"

Douglas! Kennon hadn't thought of him since the one time they had met
in Alexandria. That was a year ago. It seemed much longer. Since the
Boss-man had exiled his cousin to that bleak rock to the east of Flora
there had been no word of him. And now--he laughed a sharp bark of
humorless annoyance--Douglas couldn't have timed it better if he had
tried!

"All right," Kennon said. "I'll come. What seems to be the trouble?"

"They're sick."

"That's obvious," Kennon snapped. "Otherwise you wouldn't be calling.
Can't you tell me any more than that?"

"They're vomiting. They have diarrhea. Several have had fits."

"Thanks," Kennon said. "I'll be right out. Expect me in an hour."

"So you're leaving?" Al asked as he cradled the phone.

"That's a practitioner's life," Kennon said. "Full of interruptions. Can
I borrow your jeep?"

"I'll drive you. Where do you want to go?"

"To the hospital," Kennon said. "I'll have to pick up my gear. It's an
emergency all right."

"You're a tough one," Al said admiringly. "I'd hate to walk five kilos
in this heat without a hat--and then go out on a call."

Kennon shrugged. "It's not necessarily toughness. I believe in doing one
job at a time--and my contract reads veterinary service, not personal
problems. The job comes first and there's work to do."

Copper wasn't in sight when Kennon came back to the hospital--a fact for
which he was grateful. He packed quickly, threw his bags into the jeep,
and took off with almost guilty haste. He'd contact the Hospital from
the Otpens. Right now all he wanted was to put distance between himself
and Copper. Absence might make the heart grow fonder, but at the moment
propinquity was by far the more dangerous thing. He pointed the blunt
nose of the jeep toward Mount Olympus, set the autopilot, opened the
throttle, and relaxed as best he could as the little vehicle sped at top
speed for the outer islands. A vague curiosity filled him. He'd never
been on the Otpens. He wondered what they were like.

* * *

Otpen One was a rocky tree-clad islet crowned with the stellate mass of
a Class II Fortalice. But this one wasn't like Alexandria. It was fully
manned and in service condition.

"Airboat!" a voice crackled from the dashboard speaker of the jeep,
"Identify yourself! You are being tracked."

Kennon quickly flipped the IFF switch. "Dr. Kennon, from Flora," he
said.

"Thank you, sir. You are expected and are clear to land. Bring your
vehicle down in the marked area." A section of the roof turned a garish
yellow as Kennon circled the building. He brought the jeep in lightly,
setting it carefully in the center of the area.

"Leave your vehicle," the speaker chattered. "If you are armed leave
your weapon behind."

"It's not my habit to carry a gun," Kennon snapped.

"Sorry, sir--regulations," the speaker said. '"This is S.O.P."

Kennon left the jeep and instantly felt the probing tingle of a search
beam. He looked around curiously at the flat roof of the fortress
with its domed turrets and ugly snouts of the main battery projectors
pointing skyward. Beside him, the long metal doors of a missile launcher
made a rectangular trace on the smooth surface of the roof. Behind him
the central tower poked its gaunt ferromorph and durilium outline into
the darkening sky bearing its crown of spiderweb radar antennae turning
steadily on their gimbals covering a vast hemisphere from horizon to
zenith with endless inspection.

From the base of the tower a man emerged. He was tall, taller even than
Kennon, and the muscles of his body showed through the tightness of
his battle dress. His face was harsh, and in his hands he carried a
Burkholtz magnum--the most powerful portable weapon mankind had yet
devised.

"You are Dr. Kennon?" the trooper asked.

"I am."

"Your I.D., please."

Kennon handed it over and the big man scanned the card with practiced
eyes. "Check," he said. "Follow me, sir."

"My bags," Kennon said.

"They'll be taken care of."

Kennon shrugged and followed the man into the tower. A modern grav-shaft
lowered them to the ground floor. They passed through a gloomy
caricature of the Great Hall in Alexandria, through an iris, and down a
long corridor lined with doors.

A bell rang.

"Back!" the trooper said. "Against the wall! Quick! Into the doorway!"

"What's up?"

"Another practice alert." The trooper's voice was bored. "It gets so
that you'd almost wish for a fight to relieve the monotony."

A trooper and several Lani came down the corridor, running in
disciplined formation. Steel clanged on steel as they turned the corner
and moments later the whine of servos came faintly to their ears. From
somewhere deep in the pile a rising crescendo of generators under full
battle load sent out vibrations that could be sensed rather than heard.
A klaxon squawked briefly. There was another clash of metal, and a harsh
voice boomed through the corridors. "Fourteen seconds. Well done. Secure
stations!"

The trooper grinned. "That ties the record," he said. "We can go now."

The corridor ended abruptly at an iris flanked by two sentries. They
conferred briefly with Kennon's guide, dilated the iris, and motioned
for Kennon to enter. The pastel interior of the modern office was a
shocking contrast to the gray ferromorph corridors outside.

Douglas Alexander was standing behind the desk. He was much the same.
His pudgy face was haggard with uncertainty and his eyes darted back
and forth as his fingers caressed the knobby grip of a small Burkholtz
jutting from a holster at his waist. There were new, unpleasant furrows
between his eyes. He looked older and the indefinable air of cruelty was
more pronounced. He had been frightened the last time Kennon had seen
him, and he was frightened now.

"I'm not sure whether I am glad to see you, Kennon," he said
uncertainly. "But I suppose I have to be."

Kennon believed him.

"How have you been?" Kennon asked.

"Not too bad until this afternoon. Things have been going pretty well."
He shifted uncomfortably from one foot to another. "I suppose Cousin
Alex will skin me for this, but there's nothing else I can do." He
licked his lips. "You've been here long enough--and you'll have to know
eventually." He fidgeted and finally sat down behind the desk. "We
have trouble. Half the Lani were stricken about four hours ago. It was
sudden. No warning at all. And if they die--" his voice trailed off.

"Well--what are we waiting for? Get someone to bring my bags down here
and we'll look them over."

"Do you have to?--Can't you prescribe something?"

"How? I haven't examined the patients."

"I can tell you what's wrong."

Kennon smiled. "I hardly think that's the way to do it. Even though
your description might be accurate, you still might miss something of
critical importance."

Douglas sighed. "I thought that's what you'd say," he said. "Oh--very
well--you might as well see what we have out here."

"You can't possibly believe that I don't already know," Kennon said.
"You have male Lani."

Douglas looked at him, his face blank with surprise. "But--how did you
know? No one on the main island does except the Family. And we never
talk about it. Did Eloise tell you? I noticed she was struck with you
the day you came, and the Lani who have come out here since have been
talking about you two. Did she do it?"

Kennon shook his head. "She never said a word."

"Then how--"

"I'm not stupid," Kennon said. "That story you've spread about
artificial fertilization has more holes in it than a sieve. That
technique has been investigated a thousand times. And it has never
worked past the first generation. If you had been using it, the Lani
would long ago have been extinct. Haploids don't reproduce, and the only
way the diploid number of chromosomes can be kept is to replace those
lost by maturation division of the ovum. You might be able to keep the
diploid number by using immature ova, but the fertilization technique
would be far more complex than the simple uterine injections you use at
Hillside Station."

Douglas looked at him blankly.

"Besides," Kennon added, "I have a microscope. I checked your so-called
fertilizing solution. I found spermatozoa, and spermatozoa only come
from males. What's more, the males have to be the same species as the
females or fertilization will not take place. So there must be male
Lani. Nothing else fits. You've been using artificial insemination
on the main-island Lani. And from the way this place is guarded, it's
obvious that here is your stud farm."

Douglas shrugged and spread his hands in a gesture of resignation. "I
suppose," he said, "that's the way Old Doc found out too. We never told
him, but he knew before he ever came out here."

"The only thing that puzzles me," Kennon went on, "is how you managed to
eliminate the Y-chromosome carriers within the sperm."

"Eh?"

"The male sex-determinant. Half the sperm carry it, but so far as I
know, there's never been a male born on the main island."

"Oh--that. It's something that's done in the labs here. Probably one of
the technicians could tell you. It's called electro--electro freezing
or something like that."

"Electrodiaphoresis?"

Douglas nodded. "That sounds like it. I don't know anything about
it. One of Grandfather's men did the basic work. We just follow
instructions." He shrugged. "Well--since you know the secret there's no
sense in hiding the bodies. Come along and tell me what's wrong."

It was a peculiar feeling to walk down the row of cubical rooms with
their barred doors. The whole area reminded him of a historical novel,
of the prisons of early human history where men confined other men for
infractions of social customs. The grimness of the place was appalling.
The male Lani--impressive in their physical development--were in
miserable condition, nauseated, green-faced, retching. The sickening
odors of vomit and diarrhea hung heavily on the air. Douglas coughed and
held a square of cloth to his face, and even Kennon, strong-stomached
as he was, could feel his viscera twitch in sympathy with the caged
sufferers.

"Great Fleming, man!" Kennon exploded. "You can't keep them here. Get
them out! Give them some fresh air! This place would make a well man
sick."

Douglas looked at him, "I wouldn't take one of them out unless I had him
shackled and there was an armed guard to help me. Those males are the
most vicious, cunning, and dangerous animals on Kardon. They exist with
but one thought in mind--to kill!"

Kennon looked curiously through a barred door at one of the Lani. He lay
on a bare cot, a magnificently muscled figure with a ragged black beard
hiding his face. There were dozens of scars on his body and one angry
purple area on his thick right forearm where flesh had been torn away
not too long ago. Beads of sweat stood out on his forehead and soft
moaning noises came from his tight lips as he pressed his abdomen with
thick-fingered hands. "He doesn't look so dangerous," Kennon said.

"Watch it!" Douglas warned. "Don't get too close!" But the warning was
too late. Kennon touched the bars, and as he did, the Lani moved with
fluid speed, one huge hand clutching Kennon's sleeve and pulling him
against the bars while the other darted for his throat. Fingers bit
into Kennon's neck and tightened in a viselike grip. Kennon reacted
automatically. His arms came up inside the Lani's and crashed down,
elbows out, tearing the Lani loose. He jumped back, rubbing his bruised
throat. "That fellow's not sick!" he gasped. "He's crazy!"

The Lani glared at him through the bars, disappointment written on his
scarred and bearded face.

"I warned you," Douglas said. His voice held an undertone of malicious
laughter. "He must be sick or he would have killed you. George is clever
in a stupid sort of way."

Kennon looked into the cubicle. The Lani glared back and growled. There
was a beastlike note in his voice that made the short hairs on Kennon's
neck prickle.

"That fellow needs a lesson," he said.

"You want to give it to him?" Douglas asked.

"Not particularly."

"Ha!--man!--you afraid!" the Lani taunted. His voice was thick and
harsh. "All men fear me. All Lani, too. I am boss. Come close again man
and I kill you!"

"Are they all that stupid?" Kennon asked. "He sounds like a homicidal
moron."

"He's not stupid," Douglas said. "Just uneducated."

"Why is he so murderous?"

"That's his training. All his life he has fought. From childhood his
life has been based on his ability to survive in an environment where
every male is his enemy. You see here the sublimation of individuality.
He cannot co-operate with another male. He hates them, and they in turn
hate him. George, here, is a perfect example of absolute freedom from
restraint." Douglas smiled unpleasantly.

"His whole history is one of complete lack of control. As an infant,
being a male, his mother thought she was favored by the gods and she
denied him nothing. In fact we were quite insistent that she gave him
everything he wanted. By the time he was able to walk and take care of
himself, he was completely spoiled, selfish, and authoritative.

"Then we took him and a dozen others exactly like him and put them
together." Douglas grinned. "You should see what happens when a dozen
spoiled brats are forced to live together. It's more fun. The little
beasts hate each other on sight. And we stimulate them to compete for
toys, food, and drink. Never quite enough to go around. You can imagine
what happens. Instead of sharing, each little selfish individualist
fights to get everything he can grab. Except for one thing we
don't punish them no matter what they do. If anyone shows signs of
co-operating he is disciplined severely, the first time. The next time,
he is culled. But other than that, we leave them alone. They develop
their personalities and their muscles--and if one proves to be too
much for his fellows we transfer him to a more advanced class where the
competition is keener, and he learns what it is to lose.

"At puberty we add sex drive to the basics, and by the time our male
reaches maturity we have something like George. Actually, George is
more mature than either you or I. He has all the answers he needs. He's
strong, solitary, authoritative, and selfish. He has no curiosity and
resents encroachment. He's a complete individualist. If he proves out he
should make an excellent sire."

"But isn't he dangerous to handle?" Kennon asked.

"Yes, but we take precautions."

Kennon grimaced with distaste.

"Look at it objectively," Douglas said. "We're trying to select the best
physical type we can in the hope that he'll pass his qualities to his
offspring, and there's no better practical way to select the strongest
and hardiest than by natural selection. We control their environment
as little as possible and let Nature do our educating until they're old
enough to be useful.

"Naturally, there are some things which we cannot provide, such as
exposure to disease, to the elements, and to predators. The one isn't
selective about whom it infects, while the others would tend to produce
co-operation as a matter of survival."

"Isn't there a great deal of mortality under such a regimen?" Kennon
asked.

"Not as much as you might expect. It's about twenty per cent. And there
is a great deal of compensation from a management viewpoint. We get
essentially the same physical end product as we would from a closely
managed operation, plus a great saving in labor. Males, you see, are
fairly expendable. We only need a few a year."

"It's brutal."

"So it is, but life is brutal. Still, it's efficient for our purposes.
We merely take advantage of natural impulses to produce a better
product. Grandfather got the idea out of an old book--something about
the noble savage, natural selection and survival of the fittest. He
thought it was great--said there was nothing like relentless competition
to bring out the strongest and hardiest types. And he's been right for
centuries. Can you imagine anything much better than George--from a
physical viewpoint?"

"He is a magnificent animal," Kennon admitted as he eyed the Lani. "But
it seems to me that you could train some obedience into him."

Douglas shook his head. "That would introduce a modifying factor,
something bigger and more powerful than the male himself. And that would
modify the results. We can control them well enough with knockout gas
and shackles. And those things, oddly enough, don't destroy their pride
or self-esteem. They think that we use them because we are afraid, and
it satisfies their egos."

Kennon eyed the caged Lani dubiously. "This is going to be difficult.
I must examine them and treat them, but if they're all as homicidal as
this one--"

"You fight me man," George interrupted, his face twisted into lines of
transparent guile. "I am boss and others do as I say. You beat me, then
you are boss."

"Is this true?" Kennon asked.

"Oh, it's true enough," Douglas said. "George is the leader and if you
beat him you'd be top male until some other one got courage enough to
challenge you. But he's just trying to get his hands on you. He'd like
to kill."

Kennon looked at the big humanoid appraisingly. George was huge,
at least five centimeters taller and fifteen kilograms heavier than
himself. And he was all muscle. "I don't think I'd care to accept that
challenge unless I was forced to," Kennon said.

Douglas chuckled. "I don't blame you."

Kennon sighed. "It looks like we are going to need reinforcements to
get these brutes under control. I'm not going in there with them, and I
can't examine them from out here."

"Oh, we can hold them all right. Paralysis gas and shackles will keep
them quiet. There's no need to bother the troopers. We can handle this
by ourselves."

Kennon shrugged. "It's your baby. You should know what you're doing."

"I do," Douglas said confidently. "Wait here until I get the gas
capsules and the equipment." He turned and walked back to the entrance
to the cell block. At the iris he turned. "Be careful," he said.

"Don't worry, I will." Kennon looked at George through the bars and the
humanoid glared back, his eyes bright with hatred. Kennon felt the
short hairs prickle along the back of his neck. George roused a primal
emotion--an elemental dislike that was deeper than reason--an antagonism
intensely physical, almost overpowering--a purely adrenal response that
had no business in the make-up of a civilized human.

He had thought the Lani had a number of human traits until he had
encountered George. But if George was a typical male--then the Lani were
alien. He flexed his muscles and stared coldly into the burning blue
eyes behind the bars. There would be considerable satisfaction in
beating this monstrosity to a quivering pulp. Millennia of human
pre-eminence--of belief that nothing, no matter how big or muscular,
should fail to recognize that a man's person was inviolate--fed the
fuel of his anger. The most ferocious beasts on ten thousand worlds
had learned this lesson. And yet this animal had laid hands on him
with intent to kill. A cold corner of his mind kept telling him that he
wasn't behaving rationally, but he disregarded it. George was a walking
need for a lesson in manners.

"Don't get the idea that I'm afraid of you--you overmuscled oaf," Kennon
snapped. "I can handle you or anyone like you. And if you put your hands
on me again I'll beat you within an inch of your worthless life."

The Lani snarled. "Let me out and I kill you. But you are like all men.
You use gun and iron--not fair fight."

Douglas returned with a gas capsule and a set of shackles. "All right,"
he said. "We're ready for him." He handed Kennon the shackles and a key
to the cell door--and drew his Burkholtz.

"See," the Lani growled. "It is as I say. Men are cowards."

"You know gun?" Douglas asked as he pointed the muzzle of the Burkholtz
at the Lani.

"I know," George growled. "Gun kill."

"It does indeed," Douglas said. "Now get back--clear back against the
wall."

George snarled but didn't move.

"I'll count three," Douglas said, "and if you're not back by then
I'll burn you down. You'll obey even if you won't do anything
else.--one--two--"

George retreated to the far end of his cell.

"Now face the wall." Douglas tossed the gas capsule into the cell. The
thin-walled container broke, releasing a cloud of vapor. George
crumpled to the floor. "Now we wait a couple of minutes for the gas to
dissipate," Douglas said. "After that he's all yours. You can go in and
put the irons on him."

"Will he be out long?" Kennon asked.

"About five minutes. After that he'll have muscular control." Douglas
chuckled. "They're stupid," he said. "They know what gas does to them,
but they never have sense enough to hold their breath. They could be
twice as much trouble as they are. All right, it's safe to go in now."
Douglas let the gun dangle in his hand.

Kennon unlocked the door.

And George rolled over, muscles bunched and driving! He hit the door
with such force that Kennon was slammed against the wall, dazed--half
stunned by the speed of the attack. George--he had time to think in one
brief flash--wasn't stupid. He had held his breath for the necessary two
minutes!

Douglas jerked the blaster up and fired, but his target was too quick.
George dropped and rolled. The sizzling streak of violet flashed inches
above his body and tore a six-inch hole through the back of the cell.
And then George was on him! The huge, marvelously fast hands of the
humanoid wrenched the blaster out of Douglas's hands and jerked him
forward. A scream burst from Douglas as George's hands closed around his
neck. Muscles sprang into writhing life in the humanoid's huge forearms.
There was a soft, brittle crack, and Douglas sagged limp in the iron
grip that held him dangling.

"Faugh!" George grunted. He dropped Douglas as Kennon pushed the door
back and came out into the passageway. "Maybe you make better fight,"
George said as he lowered his head into the muscular mass of his broad
shoulders.

Kennon eyed him appraisingly, swinging the irons in his right hand.

This time the Lani didn't charge. He moved slowly, half crouched, long
arms held slightly forward. Kennon backed away, watching the humanoid's
eyes for that telltale flicker of the pupils that gives warning
of attack. The expression on George's face never changed. It was
satisfied--smug almost--reflecting the feelings of a brute conditioned
to kill and given an opportunity to do so. The Lani radiated confidence.

Kennon shivered involuntarily. He wasn't frightened, but he had never
met an opponent like this. A chill raced up the back of his legs and
spread over his stomach and chest. His mouth was dry and his muscles
quivered with tense anticipation. But his concentration never wavered.
His hard blue eyes never left George's, searching with microscopic
intentness for the faintest sign of the Lani's intentions.

George charged--hands reaching for Kennon's throat, face twisted in a
snarl of rage and hate. But even as he charged Kennon moved. He ducked
beneath the Lani's outstretched hands and drove his left fist deep into
George's belly just below the breastbone.

Air whistled out of the Lani's gaping mouth as he bent double from the
power of the blow. Kennon clipped him on the chin with a driving knee,
snapping George's head back and smashed the bearded face with the
shackles. Blood spurted and George screamed with rage. One of the Lani's
big hands wrapped around the shackles and tugged. Kennon let go and
drove another left to George's ribs.

The Lani threw the irons at Kennon, but his aim was poor. One of the
handcuff rings scraped across Kennon's cheek, but did nothing more
than break the skin. Half paralyzed by the blows to his solar plexus,
George's co-ordination was badly impaired. But he kept trying. Kennon
wrapped lean fingers about one of George's outstretched hands, bent,
pivoted, and slammed the Lani with bone-crushing force against the bars
of a nearby cell. But George didn't go down. "He's more brute than man,"
Kennon thought. "No man could take a beating like that!" He moved aside
from George's stumbling rush, feeling a twinge of pity for the battered
humanoid. It was no contest. Strong as he was, George didn't know the
rudiments of hand-to-hand fighting. His reactions were those of an
animal, to close, clutch, bite, and tear. Even if he were completely
well, the results would have been the same. It would merely have taken
longer. Kennon drove a vicious judo chop to the junction of the Lani's
neck and shoulder. Brute strength was no match for the highly evolved
mayhem that every spaceman learns as a necessary part of his trade.
George had never been on planet leave in a spaceport town. He knew
nothing about the dives, the crimps, the hostile port police. His idea
of fighting was that of a beast, but Kennon was a civilized man to whom
fighting was an art perfected by millennia of warfare. And Kennon knew
his trade.

Even so it took longer than Kennon expected because George was big,
George was strong, and George had courage and pride that kept him coming
as long as the blazing will behind his blazing eyes could drive his
battered body. But the end was inevitable.

Kennon looked at his bloody arm where George's teeth had reached their
mark. It was hardly more than a scratch, but it had been close. George
had his lesson and Kennon felt oddly degraded. He sighed, dragged George
back into the cell, and locked the door.

Then he turned to Douglas. The howls of hate from the caged Lani died to
a sullen silence as Kennon gently examined the limp body.

Douglas wasn't dead. His neck was dislocated, not broken, but he was in
serious condition. Kennon was still bending over Douglas wondering how
to call for help when three guards burst through the door, faces grim,
weapons at the ready.

"What's going on here?" the leader demanded. "The board showed an
open door down here." He saw the body--"Mr. Douglas!" he gasped. "The
commandant will have to know about this!" He took a communicator from
his waist belt and spoke rapidly into it. "Arleson in stud cell block,"
he said. "Attempted escape. One casualty--Douglas Alexander--yes,
that's right. No--he's not dead. Send a litter and bearers. Inform the
commandant. I am making investigation on the spot. Out." He turned to
look coldly at Kennon.

"Who are you--and what happened here?" he asked.

Kennon told him.

"You mean you took George!" Arleson said.

"Look in his cell if you don't believe me."

The soldier looked and then turned hack to Kennon. There was awed
respect in his hard brown eyes. "You did that!--to him! Man, you're a
fighter," he said in an unbelieving voice.

A stretcher detail manned by two sober-faced Lani females came in,
loaded Douglas's body on the stretcher, and silently bore it away.

"Douglas was a fool," Arleson said. "He knew we never handle this kind
without maximum restraint. I wonder why he did it?"

"I couldn't say. He told me that gas and shackles would hold him."

"He knew better. These Lani know gas capsules. All George had to do was
hold his breath. In that cell George would have killed you. You couldn't
have stayed away from him."

Kennon shrugged. Maybe that was what Douglas had wanted. Kennon sighed.
He didn't have the answer. And it could just be that Douglas had tried
to show off. Well, he would pay for it. He'd have a stiff neck for
months, and perhaps that was a proper way to end it.

* * *

Commander Mullins, a thin gray-faced man with the hard cold eyes of
a professional soldier, came into the corridor followed by another
trooper.

His eyes took in the wreckage that had been George, the split lips,
the smashed nose, the puffed eyes, the cuts and bruises, and then raked
across Kennon.

"Spaceman--hey?" he asked. "I've seen work like that before."

Kennon nodded. "I was once. I'm station veterinarian now. Douglas called
me over--said it was an emergency."

Mullins nodded.

"Well--why aren't you tending to it?"

"I have to examine them," Kennon said gesturing at the cells. "And I
don't want any more trouble like this."

"Don't worry. You won't have it. Now that you've beaten George, you'll
have no trouble at all. You're top dog." Mullins gestured at the cages.
"They'll be good for a while. Now you'd better get on with your work.
There's been enough disruption of routine for today. The men will help
you."

* * *

Kennon checked in at the commandant's office before he left for the main
island.

"How is Douglas?" he asked.

"He's alive," Mullins said. "We flew him to Albertsville--and good
riddance. How are the Lani?"

"They'll be all right," Kennon said. "It's just food poisoning. I
suggest you check your kitchen and your food handlers. There's a break
in sanitation that could incapacitate your whole command. I found a few
things wrong but there are probably more."

"I'll check on it--and thanks for the advice," Mullins said. "Sit down,
Doctor. Your airboat won't be serviced for another few minutes. Tell me
how things are on the main island. How's Blalok?"

"You know him?"

"Of course. I used to be a frequent visitor there. But with that young
pup here, I couldn't leave. I didn't dare to. He'd have disrupted
routine in a single day. Look what he did in half an hour. Frankly, I
owe you a debt for getting him off my hands." Mullins chuckled dryly.

"That's a fine thing to say," Kennon grinned. "But I can sympathize. It
took us two months to straighten out Alexandria after the Boss-man sent
him here."

"I heard about that."

"Well--we're under control now. Things are going pretty smoothly."

"They'll be better here," Mullins said. "Now that Douglas is gone." He
shrugged. "I hope the Boss doesn't send him back. He's hard to handle
and he makes discipline a problem."

"Could you tell me--or would it be violating security?" Kennon said.
"Why do you have a Class II installation on full war footing out here?"

Mullins chuckled. "It's no secret," he said. "There was a commercial
raid on this place about fifty years ago. Seems as though one of our
competitors didn't like us. Alexandria was on a war footing then and
managed to hold them off. But it scared the Old Man. You see, our
competitive position is based on Lani labor. Our competitors didn't know
that. Their intelligence wasn't so good. Up until that time, we'd been
keeping the males out here in what was hardly more than a stockade.
Those people could have taken a few dozen females and a couple of males
and they'd have been in business. But they didn't know. They tried to
smash Alexandria instead. Naturally they didn't have a chance. And after
it was over the Old Man got smart. He still had the tapes for Alexandria
so he built a duplicate out here and spent a few millions on modern
armament. The way we're set now it'd take a battle group to hurt us."

"But how about security? Don't the others know about the Lani now?"

"It's a moot question. But it won't do them any good. They can't crack
this place, and without males, all the females on Flora wouldn't do
them enough long-term good to pay for the force they'd need to be
successful."

"So that's why the males are isolated."

"There's another reason--two of them in fact. One is physical. Even
the best male is a dangerous beast. They have a flair for violence that
makes them useless as labor and their training doesn't help matters.
And the other is mental. The females on the main island believe that we
humans are responsible for the continuation of their breed. This tends
to keep them in line. We have a great deal more trouble with them out
here once they know the truth. We've had a number of cases of females
trying to engineer a male's escape. But they're never repeated," Mullins
said grimly. "Actually, it would be an interesting life out here, except
for the abattoir." He grimaced. "That's an unpleasant chore."

"You mean--" Kennon said.

"Why, certainly. What else could we do with senile animals?"

"But that's murder!"

Mullins shook his head. "No more than killing a cow for beef."

"You know," Kennon said, "I've never thought of what happened to aged
Lani. Sure, I've never seen one, but--Lord Lister!--I'm a fool."

"You'll get used to the idea," Mullins said. "They aren't human, and
except for a few, they aren't as intelligent as a Santosian Varl. I know
that they look like us except for those tails, but that's as far as it
goes. I've spent two hundred years with them and I know what I'm talking
about."

"That's what Alexander says."

"He should know. He's lived with them all his life."

"Well--perhaps. But I'm not convinced."

"Neither was Old Doc--not until the day he died."

"Did he change then?"

"I don't know. I wasn't there. But Old Doc was a stubborn cuss."

Kennon stood up. "I've given instructions for treatment to your
corpsman," he said. "Now I think I'd better be getting back. I have some
reports to finish."

Mullins smiled grimly. "You know," he said, "I get the feeling that you
don't approve of this operation."

"Frankly, I don't," Kennon said, "but I signed a contract." He turned
toward the door and gestured to the two Lani who waited outside with his
bags. "I can find my way to the roof," he said.

"Well--good luck," Mullins said. "We'll call you again if we need you."

"Do that," Kennon replied. He wanted to leave, to get away from this
place and back to the main island. He wanted to see Copper. He'd be
damned if anyone was going to butcher her. If he had to stay here until
she died of old age, he'd do it. But nobody was going to hurt her.



CHAPTER XII

Kennon wondered if his colleagues in human medicine felt toward their
patients as he did toward the Lani, or if they ultimately lost their
individuality and became mere hosts for diseases, parasites,
and tumors--vehicles for the practice of surgical and medical
skills--economic units whose well-being meant a certain amount of
credits. Probably not, he decided. They were human and their very
humanity made them persons rather than things.

But the possession of individuality was not an asset in the practice of
animal medicine where economics was the main factor and the satisfaction
of the owner the principal personality problem. The normal farm animals,
the shrakes, cattle, sheep, morks, and swine were no problem. They were
merely a job. But the Lani were different. They weren't human, but they
were intelligent and they did have personality even though they didn't
possess that indefinable quality that separated man from the beasts. It
was hard to treat them with dispassionate objectivity. In fact, it was
impossible.

And this lack of objectivity annoyed him. Should he be this way? Was he
right to identify them as individuals and treat them as persons
rather than things? The passing months had failed to rob them of their
personalities: they had not become the faceless mass of a herd of cattle
or a flock of sheep. They were still not essentially different
from humans--and wouldn't men themselves lose many of their human
characteristics if they were herded into barracks and treated as
property for forty generations? Wouldn't men, too, approach the animal
condition if they were bred and treated as beasts, their pedigrees
recorded, their types winnowed and selected? The thought was annoying.

It would be better, Kennon reflected, if he didn't have time to think,
if he were so busy he could drop to his bed exhausted each night and
sleep without dreaming, if he could keep on the run so fast that he
wouldn't have time to sit and reflect. But he had done his work too
well. He had trained his staff too thoroughly. They could handle the
petty routines of minor treatment and laboratory tests as well as he. He
had only the intellectual stimulation of atypical cases and these were
all too rare. The routine inspections were boring, yet he forced himself
to make them because they filled the time. The hospital wards were
virtually empty of patients, the work was up to date, the whole island
was enjoying a carnival of health, and Kennon was still impaled upon
the horns of his dilemma. It wasn't so bad now that the first shock was
over, but it was bad enough--and showed no signs of getting better. Now
that Copper realized he wanted her, she did nothing to make his life
easier. Instead she did her best to get underfoot, usually in some
provocative position. It was enough to try the patience of a marble
statue Kennon reflected grimly. But it did have its humorous side
and were it not for the fact that Copper wasn't human could have
been thoroughly enjoyable. That, however, was the real hell of it. He
couldn't relax and enjoy the contest--his feet were on too slippery
ground. And Copper with her unerring female instinct knew just what to
do to make the footing slipperier. Sooner or later, she was certain that
he would fall. It was only a question of applying sufficient pressure at
the right spot and the right time. Now that she knew he desired her,
she was content to wait. The only thing that had bothered her was the
uncertainty whether he cared or not. For Copper the future was a simple
thing and she was lighthearted about it. But not so Kennon. Even after
the initial shock had passed there still remained the moral customs, the
conditioning, and the prohibitions. But Copper--was Copper--and somehow
the conditioning lost its force in her presence. Perhaps, he thought
wryly, it was a symptom of the gradual erosion of his moral character in
this abnormal environment.

"I'm getting stale," he confided to Copper as he sat in his office idly
turning the pages of the Kardon Journal of Allied Medical Sciences.
"There's nothing to do that's interesting."

"You could help me," Copper said as she looked up from the pile of cards
she was sorting. He had given her the thankless task of reorganizing the
files, and she was barely half through the project.

"There's nothing to do that's interesting," he repeated. He cocked his
head to one side. From this angle Copper looked decidedly intriguing as
she bent over the file drawer and replaced a stack of cards.

"I could suggest something," Copper said demurely.

"Yes, I know," he said. "You're full of suggestions."

"I was thinking that we could go on a picnic."

"A what?"

"A picnic. Take a lunch and go somewhere in the jeep. Maybe up into the
hills. I think it might be fun."

"Why not?" Kennon agreed. "At least it would break the monotony. Tell
you what. You run up to the house and tell Kara to pack a lunch and
we'll take the day off."

"Good! I hoped you'd say that. I'm getting tired of these dirty old
cards." She stood up and sidled past the desk. Kennon resisted the
impulse to slap as she went past, and congratulated himself on his
self-control as she looked at him with a half-disappointed expression
on her face. She had expected it, he thought gleefully. Score one for
morality.




He smiled. Whatever the other Lani might be, Copper was different.
Quick, volatile, intelligent, she was a constant delight, a flashing
kaleidoscope of unexpected facets. Perhaps the others were the same if
he knew them better. But he didn't know them--and avoided learning. In
that direction lay ulcers.

"We'll go to Olympus," he said.

Copper looked dubious. "I'd rather not go there. That's forbidden
ground."

"Oh nonsense. You're merely superstitious."

She smiled. "Perhaps you're right. You usually are."

"That's the virtue of being a man. Even if I'm wrong, I'm right." He
chuckled at the peculiar expression on her face.

"Now off with you--and get that lunch basket packed."

She bowed. "Yes, master. Your slave flies on winged feet to execute your
commands."

Kennon chuckled. Copper had been reading Old Doc's romances again. He
recognized the florid style.

* * *

Kennon landed the jeep in a mountain meadow halfway up the slope of
the peacefully slumbering volcano. It was quiet and cool, and the light
breeze was blowing Olympus's smoky cap away from them to the west.
Copper unpacked the lunch. She moved slowly. After all, there was plenty
of time, and she wasn't very hungry. Neither was Kennon.

"Let's go for a walk," Copper said. "The woods look cool--and maybe we
can work up an appetite."

"Good idea. I could use some exercise. That lunch looks big enough to
choke a horse and I'd like to do it justice."

They walked through the woods, skirting scant patches of underbrush,
slowly moving higher on the mountain slopes. The trees, unlike those
of Beta, did not end abruptly at a snow line, but pushed green fingers
upward through passages between old lava flows, on whose black wrinkled
surfaces nothing grew. The faint hum of insects and the piping calls of
the birdlike mammals added to the impression of remoteness. It was hard
to believe that scarcely twenty kilometers from this primitive microcosm
was the border of the highly organized and productive farmlands of
Outworld Enterprises.

"Do you think we can see the hospital if we go high enough?" Copper
said. She panted a little, unaccustomed to the altitude.

"Possibly," Kennon said. "It is a long distance away. But we should be
able to see Alexandria," he added. "That's high enough and big enough."
He looked at her curiously. "How is it that you're so breathless?"
he asked. "We're not that high. You're getting fat with too much soft
living."

Copper smiled. "Perhaps I'm getting old."

"Nonsense," Kennon chuckled. "It's just fat. Come to think of it you
are plumper. Not that I mind, but if you're going to keep that sylphlike
figure you'd better go on a diet."

"You're too good to me," Copper said.

"You're darn right I am. Well--let's get going. Exercise is always good
for the waistline, and I'd like to see what's up ahead."

Scarcely a kilometer ahead they came to a wall of lava that barred their
path. "Oh, oh," Kennon said. "We can't go over that." He looked at the
wrinkled and shattered rock with its knifelike edges.

"I don't think my feet could take it," Copper admitted.

"It looks like the end of the trail."

"No--not quite," Kennon said. "There seems to be a path here." He
pointed to a narrow cleft in the black rock. "Let's see where it goes."

Copper hung back. "I don't think I want to," she said doubtfully. "It
looks awfully dark and narrow."

"Oh, stop it. Nothing's going to hurt us. Come on." Kennon took her
hand.

Unwillingly Copper allowed herself to be led forward. "There's something
about this place that frightens me," she said uncomfortably as the high
black wails closed in, narrowing until only a slit of yellow sky was
visible overhead. The path underfoot was surprisingly smooth and free
from rocks, but the narrow corridor, steeped in shadows, was gloomy and
depressingly silent. It even bothered Kennon, although he wouldn't
admit it. What forces had sliced this razor-thin cleft in the dense
rock around them? Earthquake probably. And if it happened once it could
happen again. He would hate to be trapped here entombed in shattered
rock.

Gradually the passage widened, then abruptly it ended. A bleak vista of
volcanic ash dotted with sputter cones opened before them. It was a
flat tableland, roughly circular, scarcely half a kilometer across,
a desolation of black rock, stunted trees and underbrush, and gray
volcanic ash. A crater, somewhat larger than the rest, lay with its
nearest edge about two hundred meters away. The rock edges were fire
polished, gleaming in the yellow sunshine, and the thin margin of trees
and brush surrounding the depression were gnarled and shrunken, twisted
into fantastic shapes.

"Hey! what's this?" Kennon asked curiously. "That crater looks peculiar,
like a meteor had struck here--but those stunted plants--hmm--there
must have been some radioactivity too." He looked at the crater
speculatively. "Now I wonder--" he began.

Copper had turned a sickly white. "No!" she said in a half-strangled
voice--"oh, no!"

Kennon looked at her. "You know what this is?" he demanded.

"No," Copper said. But her voice was unsteady.

"You're lying."

"But I don't know." Copper wailed. "I'm only guessing. I've never seen
this place before in my life! Please!--let's get out of here!"

"Then you know about this," Kennon demanded.

"I think it's the Pit," Copper said. "The redes don't say where it is.
But the description fits--the Circle of Death, the Twisted Land--it's
all like the redes say."

"Redes?--what are redes? And what is this business about circles of
death? There's something here that's peculiar and I want to know what it
is."

"It's nothing. Truly. Just let's go back. Let's leave this place. It's
no good. It's tabu."

"Tabu? You've never used that word before."

"Forbidden."

"Who forbids it?"

"The Gods--the Old Ones. It is not for Lani. Nor for you." Her voice was
harsh. "Come away before it is too late. Before the Silent Death strikes
you down."

"I'm going to have a look at this."

"You'll be killed!" Copper said. "And if you die, I die too."

"Don't be foolish. There's nothing here that can hurt me. See those
trees and plants growing right up to the crater's edge. If they can
take it permanently, I can stand it for a few moments. If there's any
radioactivity there, it's not very much."

"But the redes say--"

"Oh, forget those redes. I know what I'm doing. Besides, I'm a Betan and
can stand more radiation than most men. A brief exposure isn't going to
hurt me."

"You go and I go too," Copper said desperately.

"You'll stay here where it's safe," Kennon said flatly.

"I'm going with you," Copper repeated. "I don't want to live without
you."

"I tell you I won't be hurt. And one quick look isn't going to bother
whatever's down there."

"That's what Roga the Foolish said when he opened Lyssa's tower. But
he brought men to Flora. And your little look may bring an even greater
calamity."

Kennon shrugged, and started Walking toward the crater's edge.

Copper followed.

He turned to order her back, but the words died on his tips as he saw
the terror and determination on her face. Neither commands nor pleas
would move her. If he went she would follow. The only way he could stop
her would be with violence, and he didn't want to manhandle her. He felt
an odd mixture of pride, tenderness, and admiration for her. Were their
situations reversed, he doubted whether he would have the courage she
was showing. He sighed. Perhaps she was right. Perhaps he did need an
antiradiation suit.

"All right," he said. "You win. I'll get some protective clothing and
look at it later."

Her knees sagged, but he caught her before she fell, and held her erect
until her strength returned. Belatedly he understood the emotional
strain that had been gripping her. "If you come back later, sir, you'll
take me with you." The words were a statement, not a question.

He nodded. "Providing you wear a radiation suit," he said.

She grimaced with distaste and he chuckled. Clothing and Copper simply
didn't get along together.

"Well?"

"All right," she said unhappily.

"And there's one more condition."

"What's that?" she asked suspiciously.

"That you tell me about this place. You obviously know something about
it, and with all your talking, you've never mentioned it to me."

"It is forbidden to talk of these things to men," Copper said--and then,
perversely, "Do you want me to tell you now?"

"No--it can wait. We have come a long way and I am hungry. I listen
poorly on an empty stomach. Let's go back to the jeep and you can tell
me later."

Copper smiled. "That's good," she said. "I'd feel better away from this
place."



CHAPTER XIII

"I was a poor learner of the redes," Copper confessed. "And I'll have to
skip the Mysteries. I never even tried to learn them. Somehow I was sure
I'd never be a preceptress." She settled herself more comfortably on the
tawny grass and watched him as he lay on his back beside her.

"Eh?" Kennon said, "Preceptress?"

"The guardians of our traditions. They know the redes and mysteries by
heart."

"And you have kept your religion alive that way all these years?"

"It isn't exactly religion," Copper said. "It's more like history, we
learn it to remember that we were once a great race--and that we may
be again. Someday there will come a male, a leader to bring us out of
bondage, and our race will be free of dependence on men. There will
be pairings again, and freedom to live as we please." She looked
thoughtfully at Kennon. "You might even be the one--even though you are
human. You're different from the others."

"You're prejudiced." Kennon smiled. "I'm no different. Well--not very
different at any rate."

"That is not my thought," Copper said. "You are very different indeed.
No man has ever resisted a Lani as long as you have."

Kennon shook his head. "Let's not go into that now. What are these
redes?"

"I do not remember them all," Copper apologized. "I was--"

"You've said that before. Tell me what you do know."

"I remember the beginning fairly well," she said. "It goes back to the
time before Flora when everything was nothing and the Master Himself was
lonely."

Without warning her voice changed to a rhythmic, cadenced chant that
was almost a song. Her face became rapt and introspective as she rocked
slowly from side to side. The rhythm was familiar and then he recognized
it--the unintelligible music he had often heard coming from the barracks
late at night when no men were around--the voiceless humming that the
Lani sang at work.

First there was Darkness--starless and sunless

Void without form--darker than night

Then did the Master--Lord of Creation

Wave His right hand, saying, "Let there be light!"

Verse, Kennon thought. That was logical. People remember poetry better
than prose. But the form was not what he'd normally expect. It was
advanced, a style that was past primitive blank verse or heroic
pentameter. He listened intently as Copper went on.

     Light filled the heavens, bright golden glowing,
     Brought to the Void by His wondrous hand;
     Then did the Master--Lord of Creation--
     Nod His great head, saying, "Let there be land!"
     Air, land, and water formed into being,
     Born in the sight of His all-seeing eyes;
     Then did the master--Lord of Creation--
     Smile as He murmured, "Let life arise!"
     All of the life conceived by the Master,
     Varied in shape as the grasses and birds;
     Hunters and hunted, moveless and moving,
     Came into form at the sound of His words.

"That's a great deal like Genesis," Kennon said with mild astonishment.
"Where could you have picked that up?"

"From the beginning of our race," Copper said. "It came to us with Ulf
and Lyssa--but what is Genesis?"

"A part of an ancient religion--one that is still followed on some of
the Central Worlds. Its followers call themselves Christians. They say
it came from Earth, the mother-world of men."

"Our faith has no name. We are children of Lyssa, who was a daughter of
the Master."

"It is an odd similarity," Kennon said. "But other races have had
stories of the Creation. And possibly there may be another explanation.
Your ancestors could have picked this up from Alexander's men. They came
from Earth originally and some of them could have been Christians."

"No," Cooper said. "This rede is long before Man Alexander. It is
the origin of our world, even before Ulf and Lyssa. It is the first
Book--the Book of the God-spell. Man Alexander came in the sixth
Book--the Book of Roga."

"There's no point in arguing about it," Kennon said. "Go on--tell me the
rest."

"It's going to be a long story," Copper said. "Even though I have
forgotten some of it, I can chant the redes for hours."

Kennon braced his back against one of the fat tires of the jeep. "I'm a
good listener," he said.

She chuckled. "You asked for this," she said--and took up the verses
where she had left off. And Kennon learned the Lani version of creation,
of the first man and woman, cast out of Heaven for loving each other
despite the Master's objection, of how they came to Flora and founded
the race of the Lani. He learned how the Lani grew in numbers and power,
how they split into two warring groups over the theological point of
whether Ulf or Lyssa was the principal deity, how Roga the Foolish
opened Lyssa's tower to find out whether the Ulfians or Lyssans were
right, and brought the Black Years to Flora.

He heard the trial of Roga and the details of his torture by the priests
of Ulf and the priests of Lyssa--united by this greatest sacrilege. And
he heard the Lani version of the landing of Alexander's ship and man's
conquest of Flora.

It was a story of savagery and superstition, of blood and intolerance,
of bravery and cowardice, of love and beauty. Yet through it all, even
through the redes that described the Conquest, there was a curious
remoteness, a lack of emotion that made the verses more terrible as they
flowed in passionless rhythm from Copper's lips.

"That's enough!" Kennon said.

"I told you you wouldn't like it."

"It's horrible. How can you remember such things?"

"We begin to learn them as soon as we can talk. We know the redes almost
our entire lives." Copper was silent for a moment. "There's lots more,"
she said, "but it's all about our lives since the Man Alexander--the old
one--took possession of us. And most of the newer redes are pretty dull.
Our life hasn't changed much since the men came. The Book of Man is
boring." Copper sighed. "I have dared a great deal by telling you these
things. If the others knew, they would kill both of us."

"Then why tell me?" he asked.

"I love you," she said simply. "You wanted to know--and I can deny you
nothing."

A wave of tenderness swept over him. She would give her life for
him--and what would he give? Nothing. Not even his prejudices. His face
twisted. If she was only human, If she wasn't just an animal. If
he wasn't a Betan. If, if, if. Resentment gorged his throat. It was
unfair--so damned unfair. He had no business coming here. He should have
stayed on Beta or at least on a human world where he would never have
met Copper. He loved her, but he couldn't have her. It was Tantalus and
Sisyphus rolled into one unsightly package and fastened to his
soul. With a muttered curse he rose to his feet, and as he did he
stopped--frozen--staring at Copper as though he had never seen her
before.

"How did you say that Roga was judged responsible for Alexander coming
here?" he demanded.

"He went into Lyssa's tower--where Ulf and Lyssa tried to call
Heaven--and with his foolish meddling set the tower alight with a glow
that all could see. Less than a week later the Man Alexander came."

"Where was this tower?"

"Where Alexandria now stands. Man Alexander destroyed it and built his
house upon its ruins."

"And what was that place of the Pit?"

"The Shrine of Ulf--where the God-Egg struck Flora. It is buried in the
pit, but the Silent Death has protected it from blasphemy--and besides
Man Alexander never learned about it. We feared that he would destroy it
as he did Lyssa's tower."

A wild hope stirred in Kennon. "We're going home," he announced.

"Good."

"And we're going to get a pair of radiation suits--and then we're coming
back. We'll have a good look at that Pit, and if what's in there is what
I think it is"--his face was a mixture of grimness and eagerness--"we'll
blow this whole operation off this planet!"

Copper blanched. "It is death to meddle with the God-Egg," she said.

"Superstition!" Kennon scoffed. "If that Egg is what I think, it was
made by men, and you are their descendant."

"Perhaps you're right, but I can't help thinking you are wrong," she
said soberly. "Look at the trouble that came with Roga's meddling. Be
careful that you do not bring us a worse fate."

"I'll be very careful. We'll take every precaution."

"We?"

"You're coming, of course. I can't imagine you staying away."

Copper nodded.

"You shouldn't worry so much," Kennon teased. "You know we men live
forever."

"That is true."

"And if I'm right you're just as human as I. And you're capable of
living as long as I do."

"Yes, sir," Copper said. Her voice was unconvinced, her expression
noncommittal.

"You females," Kennon said in quick exasperation. "You drive a man
crazy. Get an idea in your head and it takes triatomate to blast it out.
Now let's go."

Two hours brought them back to the volcanic area, and knowing what to
look for, Kennon located the pockmarked mountain valley. From the air it
looked completely ordinary. Kennon was amazed at the perfection of the
natural camouflage. The Pit was merely another crater in the pitted
ground. He dropped to a lower altitude, barely a hundred feet above the
sputter cones. "Look!" he said.

Below them was the crater of the Pit and in its center a smooth
bluish-black hemisphere protruded from the crater floor. It would have
passed unnoticed by the casual eye--nearly concealed by two gigantic
blocks of pumice.

"The God-Egg!" Copper exclaimed.

"Egg--ha! that's a spacer! I thought it would be. I'd recognize durilium
anywhere. Let's go down and look this over, but first we want a couple
of pictures." He pointed a camera at the crater and snapped the shutter.
"There--now let's have a closer look at our baby."

"Do you expect me to get into that thing?" Copper said distastefully as
she prodded the shapeless green coveralls with a bare toe. She eyed the
helmet, gloves and boots with equal distaste. "I'd suffocate."

"If you want to come with me, you'll wear it," Kennon said. "Otherwise
you won't come near that pit. Try it and I'll chain you to the jeep."

"You wouldn't!"

"Just try me."

"Oh--all right. I'll wear the thing--but I won't be comfortable."

"Who cares about that? You'll be protected."

"All right--show me how to put it on. I'd rather be with you than worry
about what you are doing."

The suit was several sizes too large but it covered her adequately.
Too adequately, Kennon decided. She looked like a pile of wrinkles with
legs. He chuckled.

She glared. "So I'm funny," she said. "Let me tell you something else
that's funny. I'm hot. I'm sweating. I itch. Now--laugh!"

"I don't feel like laughing," Kennon said. "I feel the same way."

They approached the edge of the Pit carefully. Kennon kept checking
the radiation counter. The needle slowly rose and steadied at one-half
roentgen per hour as he thrust the probe over the rim of the depression.
"It's fine, so far," he said encouragingly. "We could take this much
for quite a while even without suits." He lowered himself over the edge,
sliding down the gentle slope.

"How is it down there?" Copper called. The intercom crackled in his ear.

"Fine--barely over one roentgen per hour. With these suits we could
stay here indefinitely." The sigh of relief was music in her ears. "This
place is barely lukewarm."

"That's what you think," Copper said.

"I mean radiation warm," Kennon said. "Stay up there and watch me. I may
need some things."

"All right." Copper squirmed inside the hot suit. The thing was an oven.
She hoped that Kennon didn't plan to work in the daytime. It would be
impossible.

Kennon gingerly approached the ship. It was half buried in the loose
debris and ash that had fallen or blown into the pit during the
centuries it had rested there. It was old--incredibly old. The hull
design was ancient--riveted sheets of millimeter-thick durilium. Ships
hadn't been built like that in over two thousand years. And the ovoid
shape was reminiscent of the even more ancient spindizzy design. A
hyperspace converter like that couldn't be less than four millennia
old. It was a museum piece, but the blue-black hull was as smooth and
unblemished as the day it had left fabrication.

Space travel would have gotten nowhere without durilium, Kennon
reflected. For five thousand years men had used the incredibly tough
synthetic to build their spacecraft. It had given man his empire. Kennon
gave the hull one quick glance. That part of the ship didn't worry him.
It was what he would find inside that bothered him. How much damage had
occurred from two thousand or more years of disuse? How much had the
original travelers cannibalized? How much could be salvaged? What sort
of records remained? There were a thousand questions that the interior
of that enigmatic hull might answer.

The upper segment of the airlock was visible. It was closed, which was a
good sign. A few hours' work with a digger should expose it enough to be
opened.

"Copper," he said, "we're going to have to dig this out. There's a small
excavator in the cargo bed of the jeep. Do you think you can bring it
down here?"

"I think so."

"Good girl!" Kennon turned back to the ship. He was eager to enter it.
There might be things inside that would settle the question of the Lani.
The original crew had probably recognized the value of the hull as
a repository as well as he did. But in the meantime there would be
work--lots of it. And every step must be recorded.

It was the rest of the day's work to expose the emergency airlock. The
little excavator toiled over the loose ash for hours before it displaced
enough to make the port visible, and the ash was not yet cleared away
sufficiently to open the portal when darkness brought a halt to the
work.

It would be impossible to unearth the spaceship with their low-capacity
digger, Kennon decided. It would be difficult enough to clear the
emergency airlock in the nose. But if the tubes and drive were still
all right, by careful handling it should be possible to use the drive to
blast out the loose ash and cinders which surrounded the hull.

Kennon reluctantly gave up the idea of entering the spaceship. That
would have to wait until tomorrow. Now they would have to conceal the
work and call it a day. A few branches and the big blocks of pumice
would suffice for temporary camouflage. Later they could make something
better. Anything in the jeep which might be useful was cached along with
the radiation suits in the passageway through the lava wall--and in a
surprisingly short time they were heading homeward.

Kennon was not too displeased. Tomorrow they would be able to enter
the ship. Tomorrow they would probably have some of the answers to his
questions. He looked ahead into the gathering night. The gray mass of
the abandoned Olympus Station slipped below them as he lined the jeep
along the path indicated by the luminous arrow atop the main building,
set the controls on automatic, and locked the craft on the guide beacon
in Alexandria's tower. In a little less than an hour they would be home.



CHAPTER XIV

Kennon was morally certain that the Lani were of human stock. Evolved,
of course. Mutated. Genetic strangers to the rest of humanity. But
human. The spaceship and the redes proved it as far as he was concerned.
But moral certainty and legal certainty were two different things. What
he believed might be good enough to hold up in a Brotherhood court, but
he doubted it. Ulf and Lyssa might be the founders of the Lani race, but
they had come to Kardon nearly four thousand years ago and no records
existed to prove that the Lani weren't here before they came. Redes
passed by word of mouth through hundreds of generations were not
evidence. Even the spaceship wasn't the absolute proof that would be
needed to overturn the earlier legal decision. Other and better
proof was needed--something that would stand up in any court in the
Brotherhood. He hoped the spaceship would hold that proof.

But Kennon's eagerness to find out what was inside the ancient spacer
was tempered by hard practicality. Too much depended on what he might
find inside that hull. Every step of the work must be documented beyond
any refutation. Some method of establishing date, time, and location had
to be prepared. There must be a record of every action. And that would
require equipment and planning. There must be no mistake that could be
twisted by the skillful counsel that Alexander undoubtedly retained.

He had no doubt that the Family would fight. Too much money and
prestige were involved. To prove the Lani human would destroy Outworld
Enterprises on Kardon. Yet this thought did not bother him. To his
surprise he had no qualms of conscience. He was perfectly willing to
violate his contract, break faith with his employers, and plot their
ruin. The higher duty came first--the duty to the human race.

He smiled wryly. It wasn't all higher duty. There were some personal
desires that leavened the nobility. To prove Copper human was enough
motivation--actually it was better than his sense of duty. Events,
Kennon reflected, cause a great deal of change in one's attitude.
Although not by nature a plotter, schemes had been flitting through his
mind with machinelike regularity, to be examined and discarded, or to be
set aside for future reference.

He rejected the direct approach. It was too dangerous, depended too much
on personalities, and had too little chance for success. He considered
the possibility of letters to the Brotherhood Council but ultimately
rejected it. Not only was the proof legally insufficient to establish
humanity in the Lani, but he also remembered Alexander's incredible
knowledge of his activities, and there was no reason to suppose that
his present didn't receive the same scrutiny as the past. And if he,
who hadn't written a letter in over a year, suddenly began to write, the
correspondence would undoubtedly be regarded with suspicion and would
probably be examined, and Dirac messages would be out for the same
reason.

He could take a vacation and while he was away from the island he
could inform the Brotherhood. Leaving Flora wouldn't be particularly
difficult, but leaving Kardon would be virtually impossible. His
contract called for vacations, but it expressly provided that they would
be taken on Kardon. And again, there would be no assurance that his
activities would not be watched. In fact, it was probable that they
would be.

There was nothing that could be done immediately. But there were certain
long-range measures that could be started. He could begin preparing a
case that could be presented to the Council. And Beta, when it knew,
would help him. The situation of the Lani was so close to Beta's own
that its obvious merit as a test case simply could not be ignored. If
he could get the evidence to Beta, it would be easy to enlist the aid
of the entire Medico-Technological Civilization. It would take time and
attention to detail; the case, the evidence, everything would have to
be prepared with every safeguard and contingency provided, so that there
would not be the slightest chance of a slip-up once it came to court.

And perhaps the best method of bringing the evidence would be to
transport it under its own power. The thought intrigued him. Actually it
wouldn't be too difficult. Externally the Egg wasn't in bad shape. The
virtually indestructible durilium hull was still intact. The controls
and the engines, hermetically sealed inside the hull, were probably as
good as the day they stopped running. The circuitry would undoubtedly be
bad but it could be repaired and restored, and new fuel slugs could be
obtained for the engine and the converter. But that was a problem for
the future.

The immediate problem was to get into the ship in a properly documented
fashion.

It took nearly two months, but finally, under the impersonal lenses of
cameras and recorders, the entrance port of the God-Egg swung open and
revealed the dark interior. Kennon moved carefully, recording every step
as he entered the black orifice in the spaceship's side. His handtorch
gave plenty of light for the recorders as he moved inside--Copper at his
heels, both of them physically unrecognizable in antiradiation suits.

"Why are we moving so slowly?" Copper said. "Let's go ahead and find out
what's beyond this passageway."

"From a superstitious coward you've certainly become a reckless
explorer," he said.

"The Egg hasn't hurt us, and we've been around it many times," she said.
"Either the curse has become too old to hurt us, or there never was any
in the first place. So let's see what is ahead. I'm curious."

Kennon shook his head. "In this business we must hurry slowly--very
slowly. You know why."

"But I want to see."

"Patience, girl. Simmer down. You'll see soon enough," Kennon said. "Now
help me set up this camera."

"Oh, all right--but isn't there any excitement in you?"

"I'm bubbling over with it," Kennon admitted, "but I manage to keep it
under control."

"You're cold-blooded."

"No--I'm sensible. We want to nail this down. My future, yours, and that
of your people depend upon how carefully we work. You wouldn't want to
let us all down by being too eager, would you?"

She shook her head. "No--you're right of course. But I still would like
to see."

They moved cautiously through the airlock and into the control room.

"Ah!" Kennon said with satisfaction. "I hoped for this, but I didn't
dare expect it."

"What?"

"Look around. What do you see?"

"Nothing but an empty room. It's shaped like half an orange, and it has
a lot of funny instruments and dials on the walls, and a video screen
overhead. But that's all. Why--what's so unusual about it? It looks just
like someone had left it."

"That's the point. There's nothing essential that's missing. They didn't
cannibalize the instruments--and they didn't come back."

"Why not?"

"Maybe because that curse you mentioned a few minutes ago was real."

Copper drew back. "But you said it wouldn't hurt us--"

"Not now. The heat's practically gone, but when whoever flew this crate
came here, the whole shell could have been as hot as a Samarian summer."

"But couldn't they have come back when it cooled?"

"Not with this kind of heat. The hull was probably too radioactive to
approach from the outside. And radioactivity cools off slowly. It might
take several lifetimes for its level to become low enough to approach if
there was no decontamination equipment available."

"I suppose that's why the early ones thought the Egg was cursed."

Kennon nodded. "Now let's check--oh! oh! what's this?" He pointed to a
metal-backed book lying on the control panel.

"It looks like a book," Copper said.

"I'm hoping it's the book."

"The book?"

"Yes--the ship's log. It's possible. And if it is, we may have all the
evidence we need--Copper!--Don't touch it!"

"Why not?"

"Because its position has to be recorded first. Wait until we get the
camera and recorders set up."

* * *

Gingerly Kennon opened the ancient book. The sheets inside were
brittle--crumbling with age--but he could make out the title U.N.S.S.
Wanderer with the date of launching and a lower line which read "Ship's
Log." Kennon was thankful for his medical training. The four years
of Classical English that he had despised so much were essential now.
Stumbling over unfamiliar words and phrases, he moved slowly through
the log tracing the old ship's history from pleasure craft to short-haul
freight tractor to obsolescence in a space dump orbiting around a world
called Heaven.

There was a gap of nearly ten years indicated by a blank page before the
entries resumed.

"Ah--this is it!" Kennon said.

"What is it?" Copper said curiously. "I can't read the writing."

"Of course you can't. It's in English--a language that became
obsolete during the Interregnum. I had to learn it, since most medical
terminology is based on it."

"What is an Interregnum?" Copper interrupted. "I've never heard that word
before."

"It's a period of confusion when there is no stable government. The last
one came after the Second Galactic War--but never mind that--it happened
long ago and isn't important now. The important thing that did happen
was the Exodus."

"What was that?"

"A religious revival and a tremendous desire to see what was happening
beyond the next star. During that century men traveled wider and farther
then they ever have before or since. In that outward explosion with
its mixed motivations of religion and practicality, colonists and
missionaries went starward to find new worlds to tame, and new races to
be rescued from the darkness of idolatry and hell. Almost any sort
of vehicle capable of mounting a spindizzy converter was pressed into
service. The old spindizzies were soundly engineered converters of
almost childlike simplicity that could and did carry ships enormous
distances if their passengers didn't care about subjective time-lag, and
a little radioactivity.

"And that's what happened to this ship. According to this log it was
bought by Alfred and Melissa Weygand--a missionary couple with the idea
of spreading the Christian faith to the heathen.

"Alfred and Melissa--Ulf and Lyssa--they were a part of this ancient
explosion that scattered human seed across parsecs of interstellar
space. It seems that they were a unit in a missionary fleet that had
gone out to the stars with flame in their hearts and Gospel on their
lips to bring the Word to the benighted heathen on other worlds."
Kennon's lips curled with mild contempt at their stupid foolhardiness
even as his pulse quickened to their bravery. They had been fanatics,
true enough, but theirs was a selfless fanaticism that would risk
torture and death for what they believed--a fanaticism that was more
sublime than the concept of Brotherhood which had evolved from it. They
knew nothing of the enmity of race, of the incessant struggle man
had since waged with alien intelligences all too willing to destroy
intruders who encroached upon their worlds. Mankind's early selflessness
had long ago been discarded for frank expansionism and dominance over
the lesser races that stood in their way. And in a way it was too bad.

The ship's log, meticulously kept in neat round English script, told a
story that was more than the bare bones of flight. There was passion
and tenderness and a spiritual quality that was shocking to a modern
man steeped in millennia of conquest and self-interest. There was a
greatness to it, a depth of faith that had since been lost. And as
Kennon slowly deciphered the ancient script he admired the courage even
as his mind winced with dismay at the unheeding recklessness.

The Weygands had lost contact with the others, and had searched for them
in hyperspace, doubling and twisting upon their course until they had
become hopelessly lost, and then, with their fuel nearly exhausted, had
broken out into the normal three-space continuum to find Kardon's sun
and the world they called Flora.

How little they had known and how lucky they had been.

It was only by the grace of their God that they had found this world
before their fuel was exhausted. And it was only by further grace that
the planet was habitable and not populated with intelligent life. They
had more luck than people were entitled to in a dozen lifetimes. Against
odds of a million to one they had survived.

It was fascinating reading.

But it was not proof.

The last entry read: "We have circled this world and have seen no
buildings--no sign of intelligent life. We are lost, marooned on this
empty world. Our fuel supplies are too low for us to attempt to find the
others. Nor could we. The constellations in the sky are strange. We do
not know which way to go. Therefore we shall land upon the great island
in the center of the yellow sea. And perhaps someday men will come to us
since we cannot return to them. Melissa thinks that this is an example
of Divine Providence, that the Lord's mercy has been shown to us that
were lost in the vastness of the deep--that we have been chosen, like
Eve and Adam, to spread the seed of man to yet another world. I hope
she is right, yet I fear the radiation level of the ship has become
inordinately high. We may well be Eve and Adam, yet an Adam that cannot
beget and an Eve that is not fruitful. I am trimming the ship for
landing, and we shall leave it immediately after we have landed, taking
with us only what we absolutely need. There is too much radiation from
the spindizzy and the drive to remain here longer--and God knows how hot
the outer hull may be."

And that was all. Presumptive evidence--yes. Reasonable certainty--yes.
But not proof. Lawyers could argue that since no direct exploration was
made there was no valid reason to assume that the Lani did not already
inhabit Kardon. But Kennon knew. His body, more perceptive than his
mind, had realized a truth that his brain would not accept until he read
the log. It was at once joy and frustration. Joy that Copper was human,
frustration that he could not obtain for her and her race the rights
to which they were entitled. But the immediate problem was solved. His
conditioning was broken now he was convinced that Copper was a member
of the human race. It was no violation of his code to love her. The
greatest barrier was broken, and with it gone the lesser ones would
yield. Relief that was almost pain washed through him and left him weak
with reaction.

"What is it?" Copper asked as he turned to her. "What is this thing that
has turned your face to joy?"

"Can't you guess?"

She shook her head. "I have seen nothing but you reading this ancient
book, yet you turn to me with the look in your eyes that the redes say
Ulf had for Lyssa."

"You're human!"

Copper shrugged. "You're mad. I'm a Lani. I was born a Lani--and I shall
die one."

"Don't you understand? All Lani are human. You all are the descendants
of two humans who came here thousands of years ago."

"Then there is no reason why you cannot love me."

Kennon shook his head. "No," he said. "There is no reason."

Copper laughed. It was a sound so merry and gay that Kennon looked at
her in surprise. She looked as happy as she sounded.

Simple and savage, Kennon thought. She cared nothing for the future, and
probably very little about the injustice of her present. The thing that
mattered was that what had kept them apart was gone. She was probably
offering mental sacrifices to the Old Ones who had caused this change
in the man she loved. She didn't really care about what had caused the
change. To her it was sufficient that it had happened.

For a moment Kennon wished that it could be as simple for him as it
apparently was for her. The fact that Copper was human posed a greater
problem than the one it solved. The one had been personal. The other was
infinitely greater. He could not let it lie. The very morality which had
kept him from doing what he wished when he thought she was a humanoid
now forced him to do what he did not wish. Every instinct said to leave
it alone. The problem was too great for one man to solve, the situation
too complicated, the evidence too inconclusive, the opposition too
powerful. It would be far better to take his happiness and enjoy it.
It was not his problem to solve. He could turn the evidence over to
the Brotherhood once his contract was over, and better and more capable
people than he could settle the Lani legal status. But the inner voice
that had called him bestial now called him shirker, coward, and slacker.
And this, too, could not be borne. The case of the Lani would have to
be pursued as vigorously as he could do it. They were entitled to human
rights--whether they wanted them or not.

His first idea of making the spacer operational was a good one, Kennon
decided as they finished the inspection of the ship. Even if it was
never used it would make a good means of retreat. He grinned wryly. In a
guerrilla operation such as the one he was considering it would be wise
to have a way out if things got too hot. The heavy parts, the engines
and the controls, were in workable condition and would merely require
cleaning and oiling. Some of the optical equipment would have to be
replaced and fuel slugs would have to be obtained for the drive--but
none of these would be too hard to accomplish. The slugs from any of the
power reactors on the island would serve nicely. All that would have
to be done would be to modify the fuel ports on the ship's engine. The
spindizzy would have to be disassembled and checked, and the main leads,
embedded in time-resistant plastic, would have to be examined. The most
serious problem, however, wouldn't involve these things. The control
board wiring and circuitry was where the trouble would lie. Normal
insulation and printed circuitry wasn't designed to last for thousands
of years. Each wired circuit would have to be removed, duplicated, and
replaced. Every printed panel would have to be cleaned and receive a new
coat of insulating varnish. Working full time, a four-man electronics
team could do the job in a week. Working part-time the two of them might
get it done in three months. And the other jobs would take at least
another. Add a month for errors in judgment, lack of materials, and
mistakes--and another for unavoidable delays--it would be at least six
months before the Egg would be spaceworthy.

Six months.

Not too long if everything went well, but far too long if there were
any mistakes. He would have to be careful, yet he must not give the
impression of being careful. He shook his head. Being a subversive was
going to require a greater amount of acting ability than he had ever
been called upon to display.

And what of Copper? How would she behave under the double strain of
knowledge that she was human and knowledge of the spaceship? Women
weren't noted for their tight-lipped reticence. Would she tell the other
Lani? Would she crack under the pressure? Did she have the qualities of
a good conspirator?

As it turned out, he didn't need to worry. As a partner in crime, Copper
was all that could be wished. Everything was normal. She was still
obedient, helpful, and gay as ever. To watch her, no one would ever
think that her bright head was full of knowledge that could rock Flora
to its foundations. Never by look or word did she betray the slightest
trace of strain or guilt.

And in her other moments she was ecstatic in her love and helpful with
the repair work on the Egg whenever Kennon could get time to visit the
old spaceship.

"You amaze me," Kennon said as they eased the cover of the spindizzy
in place and spun the bolts on the lugs that held it to the outer
shielding. He picked up a heavy wrench and began methodically to seat
the bolts as Copper wiped the white extrusion of the cover sealant from
the shining case.

"How?"

"The way you hide your knowledge of this ship from the others. I know
you better than anyone else on this island, and yet you would fool me."

"We Lani are used to hiding things. You men have been our masters for
centuries, yet you do not know our redes. Nor do you know what we think,
We obey you, but there are parts of us you do not own. It is easy to
hide a little thing like this."

Kennon nodded. It figured. He seated another bolt. Three more and
the drive room would be restored and they could start on the control
circuits. "I wish you were as clever about adopting human customs as you
are about hiding guilty knowledge," he said.

Copper laughed. "You mean those silly things you have been teaching me?
Why should I learn them? I'm happy as I am. I love you, you love me, and
that is all that matters."

"It's not all that matters. Can't you get it through your head that
civilized customs are necessary in a civilized society?" He gave the
next-to-last bolt an extra-vicious wrench. "You'll have to know them if
you expect to get along on Beta."

"But I will never see Beta."

"I am going there when my duty here is over. And you're going with me."

"When will that be?"

"Three years."

"So long? Well--we can think of it then, but I don't think Man Alexander
will let you take me."

"Then I shall take you without his consent."

She smiled. "It would be easier to stay here. In another fifteen years I
will be old and you will not want me."

"I'll never do that. I'll always want you."

"You swear too easily," she said gently. "You men live forever. We Lani
are a short-lived race."

"But you needn't be. It's obviously--"

"It's been tried, my love--and those who were treated died. Man
Alexander tried many years ago to make us long-lived like you. But he
failed. You see, he loved one of us too."

"But--"

"Let us think no more of it. Let us enjoy what we have and be grateful
to the Gods for the love we enjoy--or do you have any Gods?"

"One."

"Two are better. More, anyway. And besides, Ulf and Lyssa and the
God-Egg are responsible for our joy."

"They are indeed," Kennon said.

"Then why should you think of leaving the place where they rule? You
should stay here. There will be other Lani when I am gone. You will be
happy always."

"Not without you," Kennon said. "Don't you understand that I love you?"

"And I you. But I am a Lani. You are a man."

"You're as human as I am," Kennon said abruptly.

"That is what you say," Copper replied. "I am not so sure. I need more
proof than this." She waved her hand at the ship.

"What proof do you need?"

"The same as the proof you men require. If I should have your child,
then I would believe that I was human."

"I've told you a thousand times that the radiation on this ship must
have affected Ulf and Lyssa's germ plasm. Can't you understand that?"

"I can understand it all right, but it does not change things. Ulf and
Lyssa may have been human before they came here, but they were not when
they landed. They were Lani, and their children were Lani."

"But they were of human stock."

"The law that lets men become our masters does not agree with you."

"Then the law is wrong. It should be changed."

Copper shrugged. "Two people cannot change a law."

"They can try--particularly if the law is unjust."

Copper sighed. "Is it not enough for us to love? Must you try to run
through a wall?"

"When the wall stands in the way of right and justice I must."

Copper looked at him with pity in her green eyes. "This I do not
understand. I know nothing of right and justice. What are these things?
Just words. Yet you will endanger our happiness for them. If it is my
happiness you wish--then leave this foolishness alone. I have fifteen
years I can live with you before I am old and you tire of me. With those
years I can be content."

"But I can't," Kennon said. "Call me selfish if you wish, but I want you
with me as long as I live. I don't want to live my life without you."

"You want too much," Copper said softly. "But if it makes you happy to
try to get it, I shall help. And if we do not succeed you will at least
be happier for trying. And if you are happy"--she shrugged--"then the
rest makes little difference."

That was the crux of the matter, Kennon reflected bitterly. He was
convinced she was human. She was not. And until her mind could be
changed on that point she would help him but her heart wouldn't be in
it. And the only thing that would convince her that she was human would
be a child--a child of his begetting. He could perhaps trick her with
an artificial insemination of Lani sperm. There were drugs that could
suspend consciousness, hypnotics that would make her believe anything
she was told while under their influence.

But in the end it would do no good. All witnesses in Brotherhood court
actions were examined under psychoprobe, and a hypnotic was of no value
against a lie detector that could extract the deepest buried truth.
And he would be examined too. The truth would out--and nothing would be
gained. In fact--everything would be lost. The attempt at trickery would
prejudice any court against the honest evidence they had so painfully
collected.

He sighed. The only thing to do was to go on as they were--and hope that
the evidence would hold. With Betan legal talent at their back it
might. And, of course, they could try to produce a child as nature had
intended. They could try--but Kennon knew it would not succeed. It never
had.



CHAPTER XV

Copper had been acting strangely of late, Kennon thought as he rolled
over in his bed and watched her standing before the full-length mirror
on the bathroom door. She pivoted slowly before the glass, eying herself
critically, raising her arms over her head, holding them at her sides,
flexing her supple spine and tightening muscles that moved like silken
cords beneath her golden skin.

"What are you trying to do--become a muscle dancer?" Kennon asked idly.

She whirled, a crimson blush deepening the tan of her face. "You were
supposed to be asleep," she said.

"I'm an unregenerate heel," he replied, "and I don't sleep too well
nowadays unless you're beside me."

"Well--I suppose you might as well know now as later," she said. "You'll
know in any event."

"Know what?"

"That you're right. I am human."

"And what brought on this sudden change of--" He stopped abruptly, his
eyes widening.

"Yes," Copper said. "I am with child. Your child."

"But that's impossible."

She shook her head. "It's a miracle perhaps, but it's not impossible.
It's happened. Can't you see the difference?"

"See what? You look just as you always do."

"I suppose you can't see it yet," she admitted. "But I am with child.
I'm two weeks past my time."

Kennon's mind leaped to the obvious conclusion. Pseudo-pregnancy. He had
seen it before among Lani at Hillside Farm. It was an odd syndrome
which occasionally occurred in humans and animals. The brain, desiring
children, made demands upon the body and the body responded to its
desire by tricking the brain. Lani were fairly subject to it probably
because they had better imaginations. He would run a few tests when they
went down to the hospital, and once she realized the practical joke her
body was playing everything would be all right. No wonder she seemed
excited.

"We'll find out about that later," he said equably. "We'll settle this
when we get back to the hospital."

Copper smiled confidently and patted her stomach. "I know what you are
thinking, but you're wrong. We Lani know about these things. In forty
generations I am the first to conceive as the Master intended."

"I hope you haven't," Kennon said with such bitter sincerity that Copper
looked at him wide-eyed. "Not now. Because if you have, neither your
life nor mine is safe."

"Why?"

"The Alexanders. Do you think they'll take it lying down? We're not
ready for them yet. They'll fight, and the first thing they'll do is
kill you and erase me so we would never be able to talk. You have been
declared an animal, and you will not be allowed to change."

"What can we do?" Copper asked. She shivered. "I do not want to die."

"Nor do I want you to," Kennon said.

"I could tell the others."

"And just what would that accomplish?"

"In a week every Lani on the island would know it. There would be
revolt. For the Lani would no longer be dependent upon Men to survive.
Their greatest hold on us would be gone. And we would be free again on
our island world."

"You would not!" Kennon said. "That sort of thinking is foolishness.
Alexander would have men here within a week, and a week after that you
would be smashed. Don't you realize that there are thousands of millions
of men in the galaxy--and to every one of them you would be animals. You
know nothing about what you would face. Your puny hundreds couldn't even
stand against a fraction of the power Alexander could mount against you.
Have you seen a Burkholtz blaster work? Have you seen remote-control
antipersonnel missiles? Have you push-pull projectors, atomic warheads?
All of these weapons Alexander can command. Don't you realize he's an
entrepreneur?--one of the most powerful men in this sector?"

Copper shook her head. "No," she said in a small voice. "I know nothing
about these things."

"And do you think forty generations of absolute obedience to men can be
overcome because one Lani says she is pregnant by a man?"

Copper frowned. "You put that in a different way. You talk as if it were
my belief rather than the truth."

"What is truth?" Kennon said heavily. "Who would believe you? There are
hundreds of others with child.

"Sure you're human. You know it. I know it. I've been trying to convince
you for the past two months. You're just as human as I am. But pray that
you're not pregnant. We can't get out of here in less than four months
and by then everybody will know about you. Someone will certainly check
the records. And after that will come the psychoprobes. Everything will
come to light. The Egg will be destroyed. I will be erased. You will be
dead. And that will be the end of it." He looked down at her with an odd
expression of pity on his face. "You see?" he demanded harshly.

Copper nodded. "I didn't understand," she said. "Don't be angry with me.
I shouldn't have told you. I thought you'd be happy."

"I was never angry with you, but I am with myself. I was stupid. I
didn't figure on the remote possibility that we might be genetically
compatible. I should have my head examined for putting you in such
danger. However there's the possibility--the probability--that your body
is playing a trick upon you."

She shook her head. "You are wrong. I am not mistaken. I am with child
and the child is yours. But the fault is no more yours than mine. I
wanted you before you looked on me. I still do and I do not feel at
fault. That I am yours, that my child is yours is a thing of wonder and
joy. Never could I have expected so much."

Kennon looked down at her smudged face, streaked with the sudden
rivulets of tears, and bitterness galled his throat. Dear God--let her
be wrong, he prayed silently. Let it be pseudopregnancy this time. Let
the tests be negative.

But they weren't. Unequivocally they confirmed Copper's diagnosis. Here
was the proof he needed. The final test that would prove the Lani human.
And he had no way of getting it where it would do any good. It would
take at least four months of steady labor before the ship was ready, and
he didn't have that sort of time. He was needed here and his prolonged
absence would cause suspicion and investigation. Something would have to
be done--but what? He couldn't take Copper off the island in an airboat.
They were checked with microscopic care by Otpen One's IFF. A jeep
didn't have enough range to take them to the mainland. And even if they
got there they couldn't get off the planet. Alexander knew everything
that happened on Kardon's two spaceports. The Egg was the only way, but
the Egg was unfinished and unspaceworthy.

Frantically Kennon considered concealing Copper. He shook his head. It
wouldn't work. It would be impossible, to hide a baby on a place where
every birth was recorded. Nor could one hide evidence of pregnancy in a
Lani. Childbearing leaves telltale marks upon the body, and Copper, even
if she could be concealed for the duration of her pregnancy, could never
survive the sharp-eyed scrutiny of her fellows or the other humans.
Questions would inevitably be asked.

There had to be a solution. He rubbed his forehead wearily. It was
strange how so little a thing as the union of a spermatozoon and an ovum
could produce so much trouble. He looked across the office at Copper
placidly filing case cards. She wasn't worrying. With sublime faith,
she was sure that he would find the answer, the one that would solve
everything. He shuddered. The only logical solution was abortion--and
that was unthinkable! He would not murder his child--nor would Copper
permit it if he was capable of doing so.

It was almost a relief when his phone rang and Blalok's voice came
cheerfully across the wire.

"Tried to get you about an hour ago," the superintendent said, "but your
girl said you were busy."

"I was."

"You through now?"

"Yes."

"Well, get up to the fortress. Alexander just flew in and he's calling a
meeting. Something important has come up."

Something important! A wave of ice rattled down Kennon's spine, and then
he grinned feebly. Alexander didn't know. He couldn't know. It had to be
something else.

"I'll be right up," he said, marveling at the calmness in his voice.

Kennon couldn't help comparing this meeting with the one a year ago.
The location was different--the conference room in Alexandria was more
formal than Blalok's parlor but the same people were present: Alexander,
Blalok, Jordan, and himself. Somehow Alexander seemed to have shrunk. He
was no longer as impressive as he had been. But the man still radiated
force, even though it didn't seem quite so overpowering. The year,
Kennon thought, had done much to build his self-confidence. He felt
assured rather than nervous.

"Good to see you, Kennon," Alexander said. "Reports say you're doing a
good job."

"I can't claim the credit," Kennon said. "Eighty-five per cent of our
success is due to co-operation from the operating staff. And that's
Blalok's doing--he knocked the heads of the division managers together
and they took care of their staffs. Otherwise we could have had a bad
time."

"But you didn't," Alexander said. "And you were the motive force."

"I've darn near motivated myself out of a job," Kennon said. "They
co-operate all too well nowadays."

"Which goes to prove that my theories on preventive medicine are right,"
Alexander said, turning to Blalok.

"It looks that way," Blalok admitted, "but that could be because you
picked a good man."

"He's good in more ways than one," Alexander said. "Or did he tell you
he saved Douglas's life out on Otpen One?"

"He's never said a word."

Alexander smiled. "Another point in his favor. He knows how to keep his
mouth shut."

"Not when he's telling someone what to do about disease," Jordon
interjected.

"Or telling someone off when they haven't followed directions," Blaiok
added.

"Better and better. I was sure that he was the one we needed when we
first met."

Kennon felt his ears turn flaming red.

"But that's not the reason I brought you here. This isn't a Jac Kennon
admiration society. I called you because I want to expand the Lani
breeding program."

"Why?" Jordan asked.

Blalok stiffened. "You know my feeling about that, sir. I've never liked
the idea of selling them. If that's what's in your mind--"

Alexander shook his head. "Simmer down," he said, as he seated himself
at the head of the table. "There's going to be no selling. The Lani are
too valuable for that. We'll need them more than the money they'd bring
on the market. You see--I've acquired a planet out on the periphery. A
place called Phoebe. One of our ships found it, and I staked a discovery
claim on the major land mass, and the crew made lesser claims that
covered all the available land. Last month the Brotherhood allowed the
claims. Last week the crewmen sold me their land. Phoebe's a lovely
place--quite a bit like Flora--and the ecological tests show it's
capable of supporting mammalian life. Just before I came here I sent
three shiploads of exterminators to clean it up and make it ready for
us. It should be ready in two years."

"What sort of an ecology are you exterminating?" Jordan asked.

"Not that it makes any difference," Alexander said, "but it's mainly
reptilian. Nothing over Group I. We'll restock with Floran animals."

Jordan sighed. "Since that's the way it is, it doesn't make any
difference," he said. "But it could have. The Lani are sensitive to
things like that. If they thought that they were walking in over a pile
of bodies they'd do badly. It'd be like Olympus all over again. And we
couldn't keep them from knowing. We talk and we forget, but they'd tell
each other--and they'd remember."

"I know," Alexander said, "somehow they've never forgotten that
Grandfather trapped the last of the Lani males on Olympus."

Jordan nodded. "They can't stand the place. That's why we had to abandon
the station."

"Does this new world have a moon?" Kennon asked abruptly.

"Yes--in fact it has two."

"Habitable?"

"No--they're too small to hold air. But men could live there in
domes--but why do you?--oh! I see! I hadn't considered that point."
Alexander's hand darted to the phone beside him. "Get me Albertsville,"
he snapped. "Yes, my offices--I want Mr. Oliver in purchasing and
contracting. Hello--Ward? Alexander here. Yes--everything's fine. I
have a job for you--use your scrambler-pattern two." Alexander
dialed the scrambler code on the second dial at the base of the phone,
effectively preventing eavesdropping by beam tappers. "Yes," he went on.
"It's Project Phoebe. Have you secured title to the moons? You haven't?
Well--you'd better do it before some of our competitors get bright
ideas. Sure they know about the project--do you think they're stupid?
Warren over at Consolidated practically told me that he was onto our
scheme. So get title to those moons. Since they're uninhabitable and
within the planet's primary field they come under the Spatial Debris Act
and you should be able to get Kardonian title without any great amount
of trouble. Naturally we want them.--For defense--what else? We'll have
most of our eggs in that basket. No--I don't know how we overlooked that
point. But if it wasn't for a bright young man out here we'd have left
ourselves wide open. Now get cracking--get that leak plugged!" Alexander
dropped the phone back in its cradle and sighed. "Well--that's buttoned
up," he said. "Thanks, Kennon."

Kennon looked at Alexander's grinning face, his own impassive, but a
shattering certainty exploded in his mind--Alexander was a telepath!
That was his difference! That was the thing that made him feared and
respected by his business associates. It wouldn't have been enough on
the Central Worlds, where men knew of sensitives and took precautions
against them. But out here on the periphery it was a deadly advantage.

"So I gave it away," Alexander said. "I suppose I was careless, but your
thoughts about the moons shocked me."

"You practically told me once before, when you hired me," Kennon said,
"but I never realized it."

"You were too excited then."

"I wouldn't know," Kennon said. "At any rate I didn't add the facts
correctly." From somewhere deep in his memory an old quip came floating
to the surface: "An executive is a man who picks brains--others'
brains." By that definition Alexander was an executive of the first
class. Alexander chuckled.

Suddenly Kennon wanted to run. Panic flooded him! What had he been
thinking about? Had he thought of--two times two are four, four times
four are sixteen, sixteen times sixteen are--let's see, six times
sixteen is ninety-six, one times sixteen is--six, five, carry
one--two--two hundred fifty-six. Two hundred fifty-six times--

"What's eating you?" Alexander demanded.

"I'm angry," Kennon said. "I told you the conditions I'd sign that
contract, and you wrote a Peeper Clause into it. And then you peep in
the worst way possible. There's no defense against a Telep unless
you know about him; you've had my whole mind bare! You've violated my
personal privacy like no man has done before. Sure I'm mad. I expected
honesty from you--and you peep!" The anger was stronger now--a wave of
raw emotion based on a lifetime of training in mutual respect of a man's
privacy--a feeling intensified by his childhood environment of a crowded
planetary ecology and the cramped crew quarters on a spaceship. To
Kennon, Alexander had committed the ultimate sin.

"I can see I made a mistake by not telling you," Alexander said. His
voice was cold. "But you have no right to insult me."

"I'm not saying it, am I?" Kennon snapped. The moonflower on the
bookcase behind Alexander was a thing of beauty. Alexander liked beauty.
He had said so, and the Great Hall below them bore it out. It was a
lovely room. Those four bronze Lani in the fountain were works of art.
One of them looked remarkably like Copper. Copper in bronze. The little
witch had probably posed for the casting. Maybe it had even been made
from her body.

"They're all of Susy," Alexander said. "I can see why you are angry, and
I don't blame you. But remember I warned you about Lani."

Copper--Kennon wrenched his thoughts back to the moonflower. It had
twelve petals, limpid white on the borders shading to deep blue in the
center-from which the cream-colored stamen surrounded by transparent
pistils sprang to burst into a golden glory of pollen that dripped
in tiny yellow flecks to the broad petals below. It was a magnificent
flower. There was nothing like it on Beta. That was a marvelous thing
about flowers--wherever one went in the universe, plants used the same
methods to fertilize their seed and spread their germ plasm. It was too
bad that--Kennon jerked his attention to Alexander's face. He detested
the thought that his mind was common property. A man should have
something he can call his own. There had been a clinics instructor
in Year Six who was a sensitive. The classes had protected themselves
against his prying with a circlet--a thought screen--he had done it too.
Maybe he had brought the circlet with him. If he did, no one was going
to catch him without it. It was a dirty business, this reading of
others' thought. Now where had he put that circlet? Was it among his old
books--or was it with his instruments?

"Why don't you go back to your house and find it?" Alexander snapped.
"As you are, you're nothing but a disruption. I want you in on this
meeting, but not the way you're acting."

"I'm not going to act any other way until I get some protection from
peeping," Kennon said grimly. "And if you think this is bad wait till I
start going through comparative anatomy."

"What's the matter with you two?" Blalok asked.

"Be quiet," Alexander snapped. "This isn't your problem. Kennon is
behaving like a spoiled child!"

"He's a telepath!" Kennon said. "And he didn't tell me."

"So what? I've known that for years."

"And you stand for it?"

"I'm a Mystic, not a Betan," Blalok said. "I don't have your insane
desire for privacy."

"Go find that thought screen if you still have it!" Alexander said. "I
don't want any more of this. You're making me ill!"

Kennon grinned thinly as he rose to his feet. It was a good thing he
remembered Alexander was squeamish and didn't like anatomy. The door
was to his left, an iris door with eight leaves--terribly old-fashioned.
About ten steps away. Count them--one--two--three--

Alexander sighed as Kennon left the room. "I certainly pushed the panic
button on that young man," he said. "He has a pathological attitude
toward telepathy. Wonder what he has to hide that he wants privacy so
badly? Even for a Betan this reaction was violent."

"Oh, I don't know. He's a pretty emotional sort. Maybe he hates to look
like a fool. He's gotten himself mixed up with one of the Lani. Cute
little thing by the name of Copper," Blalok said.

"Oh--that's it. I thought that was what he was hiding. A picture of
a girl kept popping up." Alexander chuckled. "I suppose that's the
trouble. A man hardly likes to look a fool, particularly to someone
who has warned him. At that, I don't blame him. They are beautiful and
affectionate. And even with their superstitions and tabus they're better
than most humans."

"For pets," Blalok said heavily.

"They're not better at anything," Jordan demurred. "They can't be--man
is the best and always will be."

"The eternal racial chauvinist," Alexander murmured. He turned his
attention to Blalok. "But for awhile, Evald, I'd suggest you keep an
eye on our young man. I still don't like his reaction. It was too
violent--too defensive. I don't feel right about it. Perhaps Betans are
more sensitive than most people but it seems to me that he's trying
to conceal something. There was an undertone of fear--and something
else--beneath his defenses."

"Couldn't you get any more than that?" Blalok asked. "You're pretty good
at this mind-reading business."

"His defenses were remarkably good," Alexander said dryly.

* * *

Well he'd done it now, Kennon thought. He found the thought-screen
circlet sandwiched between two books on comparative neuroanatomy which
he hadn't bothered to unpack. He slipped it on and connected the lead
wires to a portable battery pack. There was a half-forgotten tingling
as the weak field heterodyned his thought waves. Kennon sighed. If
Alexander wasn't suspicious of him now the man was a fool. He'd done as
well as he could with confusion and outrage, but it was hardly possible
to hide behind superficialities. Even the most disciplined mind couldn't
do that without some preparation. Undoubtedly his concern about Copper
had leaked through. He could only hope that other and more important
things had not.

Well--he could go back to the conference now, but he would have to be
doubly careful from now on. He couldn't make daily trips to Olympus. His
reaction had killed that plan. Alexander would be suspicious now--and
unusual actions would crystallize suspicion to certainty. Now he needed
a reason to be in that area. And then he grinned. He had a reason--a
good one--one that would fit in with Alexander's plans and his own.
The only problem would be to make Alexander buy it--and that might be
difficult. He'd have to work carefully--but with normal luck he could
put the idea across. He crossed his fingers as he trudged back up the
path to Alexandria.

The conference dragged on. Unlike most meetings, this one accomplished
things--which was a tribute to Alexander's ability to keep the subject
in hand. Details of the expansion program presented by Alexander were
rapidly reduced to workable plans. They involved some rearrangement of
existing facilities, and the construction of others. But the obvious
snags were rapidly disposed of, and the whole revamped operation was
outlined on paper in surprisingly few hours. A deadline date was set,
construction was authorized, and in the morning the first steps in the
practical implementation of the new program would be taken.

"Well, that's that," Alexander said with a sigh. "I think this calls for
a drink."

"There's one more thing," Kennon said. "I know it isn't much, but
Jordan's remark started me thinking."

"What remark?" Jordan asked.

"The one you made at the beginning about Phoebe possibly being like the
Olympus Station. I've often wondered why that particular location has
been so difficult to operate. Sure, I know the accepted explanation,
but I think we should learn why it works and how to break a tabu. If we
don't, we might be in for trouble."

"That's a good thought," Alexander said. "I tried to find out once, but
all I could discover was that it was tabu. The Lani simply didn't like
it. And despite the fact that I can read minds, I didn't learn any more
than that. There's a certain sex-linkage to telepathy, as you probably
know."

Kennon nodded.

"All I could discover was that their dislike of Olympus was a basic
emotion rather than reasoned thought. They were nervous, irritable,
disobedient, and uncooperative while they were there--and even they
didn't know why. It was merely tabu. We even tried youngsters--but the
attitude was the same. I'd like to know more about that basic emotion."

"We should understand it," Kennon agreed. "If we transship a large
number of Lani to a strange world, we should know their deepest
motivations. We cannot take the chance that the transplant won't take,
with all the money you're sinking into this project."

"You have a point there. Have you any suggestions about how to
accomplish this?" Alexander's voice was interested.

"I have. Hire a psychologist. And reopen Olympus."

"It'll be the same story," Jordan said.

"Not if you apply experimental procedure," Kennon said. "Divide the
place into a number of separate units in which groups of--say ten--Lani
of various ages are kept. Let every group know where they are, but don't
let them come in contact with one another. Observe them constantly. Put
spy cells in the units. Couple them to recorders. Prepare a set of test
situations and observe how each group performs. Question individuals
under narcosynthesis. Observe and record any changes in physical
condition--give them the works. Maybe we can collect some basic data
that will indicate the answer."

"Not a bad idea," Alexander said.

"I don't like it," Jordan said. "It sounds cumbersome."

"It is," Kennon agreed. "But it may save a great deal of trouble later."

"I think you're right, Kennon," Blalok said. "We should know everything
we can."

"What would you do first if you were heading this program?" Alexander
asked. He eyed Kennon critically.

"Nothing," Kennon said promptly. "I'm not qualified to run an
investigation like this. You need a specialist. I am a practitioner."

"Hmm--but you know experimental procedure."

"Naturally--but I do not have the training to prepare a program or
evaluate its results. The only thing I could do would be to check the
physical condition of the experimental groups."

"Could you set up the physical facilities?" Alexander asked.

"Possibly--I'd need a set of plans of the station, and I couldn't
guarantee that the specialist wouldn't want to make changes. But the
physical arrangements should be simple enough to construct."

"How long would it take you to prepare a plan?"

"I could have it by tomorrow, or perhaps a day later."

"If you can do it by then I'll stay over. I'd like to examine this
proposal more closely. It has merit. That's the second constructive
suggestion you've made tonight. Despite your peculiar desire for
privacy, I'm glad you came back." Alexander smiled.

Kennon smiled back. Apparently the entrepreneur had taken the bait.
But it was too early to tell whether he had swallowed it without
reservation. It all depended upon how much had been given away before
he had discovered that Alexander was a telepath. Perhaps Alexander was
merely leading him on. There were too many intangibles, and there was no
way of predicting how it would turn out. But he felt mildly optimistic.

Alexander closed the meeting, and Kennon left promptly. He had a good
excuse. There was plenty of work to do if he was going to prepare an
adequate plan for utilizing Olympus Station. Jordan went with him,
but Blalok stayed behind. It was natural enough. Blalok was the
administrator, but Kennon felt uneasy. Nor would he have felt any better
if he could have heard what went on after he left.

Alexander looked quizzically at Blalok after the door closed behind the
two men.

"Well, Evald, what do you think? Does it strike you that Kennon's
sincere--or does it sound as though he has something up his sleeve?"

"If he does," Blalok said, "I don't know what it could be. I wouldn't
take a job on Olympus if you gave it to me."

"If he doesn't know about the place," Alexander said thoughtfully, "it's
probable that his suggestion was honest. I think it is but I'm not sure.
He worries me now that I can't read him. I think I'll send Douglas back
here to watch him."

"Why? In my book that'd be a poor choice. After all, you said Kennon
saved his life. He should be grateful."

"You don't know Douglas," Alexander said. "He hates Kennon's guts for
what he did."

"What did he do?"

"He made Douglas feel inferior. And there's no surer way to gain my
cousin's undying enmity." Alexander laughed. "I know," he said. "He'd
like to kill me, too."

Blalok shrugged.

"But in the meantime I want you to keep an eye on Kennon. If his outline
is all right, I'm going to authorize him to set up this experiment. I
want to give him every possible chance. I like him--and he's done good
work. I wouldn't want him to feel that I distrust him."

"Which you do, of course," Blalok said dryly.

Alexander smiled. "Actually," he said with equal dryness, "I distrust
everyone."



CHAPTER XVI

"If you think this job is easy, you have another think coming," Kennon
said bitterly. "I hired out as a veterinarian, not as a nursemaid for
a bunch of psychoneurotic humans and superstitious Lani. The place is
jinxed, they tell me.--Ha! Jinxed! Sure it's jinxed! What job wouldn't
be with a bunch of goofballs like these I've got working on it.

"I can't keep a Lani here for two weeks without having her throw a
catfit, and the superstitious idiots are affecting the men--who ought to
know better! I wish I'd never have opened my big mouth to Alexander! As
far as I'm concerned he can take this job and--"

"Hey--take it easy, man!" Blalok said. "You're heading straight for a
nervous breakdown."

"And why shouldn't I?" Kennon asked. "Nothing goes right. There's always
trouble. I order materials--they don't arrive. There's worker trouble,
equipment trouble, installation trouble. Everybody's cutting corners,
trying to get done faster and away sooner--and all they do is mess up
work that should have been done right the first time. We should have
been finished last week, but we have another week to go, at least unless
some bumble-fingered beanbrain gets another bright idea that sets us
back again. I'm sick to death of it!"

"I know, I know," Blalok said soothingly, "and I'm sorry."

"Sorry? What good is that? You and Jordan come up here in relays. Just
what do you think you'll find? Or has Alexander dragged you into keeping
an eye on me because I don't like someone snooping inside my skull?"

"It's not that," Blalok said. "It's just--"

"Oh, don't make excuses. You know and I know the Boss-man is
suspicious." Kennon shrugged. "Normally I wouldn't blame him but it's
a damned nuisance with things the way they are. All we have is one more
bay and a hall to finish--but if--"

"Now wait a minute," Blalok said. "Get the kink out of your neck and
simmer down. Sure--the Boss-man told us to keep an eye on you--but
that's not why I'm here this time."

"Well?"

"Douglas came back this morning."

"What for?"

"I don't know." Blalok's face wore the noncommittal look it always wore
when he was taking liberties with the truth.

"You're probably the worst liar in the galaxy," Kennon chuckled. "He's
here to breathe down my neck, isn't he?"

Blalok nodded.

"Keep him off my back for another week and he can breathe all he wants
to. I'll be done then."

"I can't promise a thing."

Kennon shrugged. "It's too much to ask, I guess."

"But I can try," Blalok added.

"That's enough for me." Kennon grinned. "Has he turned Alexandria into a
shambles yet?"

"Not yet, but everyone's uneasy."

"I can't blame them. That young fellow's undiluted poison. By the way,
how does he look?"

"About the same."

"The medics must have done a good job," Kennon said.

"The Boss-man shipped him to Beta for treatment," Blalok said. "He
didn't trust the docs out here."

"That figures. At any rate Douglas couldn't have gone to a better
place."

"What happened to him?"

"He stuck his nose where he shouldn't," Kennon said pointedly.

Blalok stiffened.

"I'm sorry, Evald. Even if you knew, I couldn't talk about it. What I
know about Douglas is classified!"

"Well--Douglas is doing plenty of talking. Claims his stay in the
hospital was all your fault."

Kennon shrugged. "That's his opinion. And as long as he stays out of my
way he's welcome to it."

Blalok looked at Kennon's haggard face with mild concern, "Doc," he
said, "you'd better take it easy. You're going to pieces."

"I'll be through here in another week, I'll have this all wrapped up."

"Providing you're not wrapped up first."

"Eh?"

"In a shroud. You look like a walking corpse."

Kennon chuckled wearily. "Sometimes I feel like one. But I'd like to get
this job finished."

"Well, I'll do what I can," Blalok said. "I'll try to keep him down at
Alexandria for a few days."

"It'll be enough," Kennon said. More than enough--he added mentally.
The coils of fuel wire were ready to load, and the power slugs for the
ship's reactor were already stored in the power plant building here at
Olympus. Three more days and the old spacer would be as ready to fly as
she would ever be. And after that, it was in the lap of fate.

He ushered Blalok to his jeep and watched until he disappeared.

"I'm getting to be a first-class liar," he remarked wryly to himself
as he turned back to the temporary quarters he was occupying at the
station. "And the bad thing about it is that I'm actually enjoying it."

A few weeks ago an admission like that would have been inconceivable.
It was odd, he thought, how one thing led to another and produced an
end that could not be foreseen. Now he could lie and dissemble with the
best. He had no compunction about falsifying a requisition, or stealing
what he could not obtain with apparent honesty. His character had sunk
to an all-time low, he reflected with grim humor as he walked into the
shadow of the main building. Neither Blalok's nor Jordan's frequent
visits bothered him. Both men were creatures of habit and both were
married. They stayed home at night--and it was nighttime that he worked
on the spacer. The project afforded him a perfect cover and it was only
minutes by jeep away from the crater.

Even so, the double duty was an appalling task. And it would have been
impossible if it wasn't for Copper. Her quick fingers, keen eyesight,
and uncanny memory made the work seem simple, and neither the
tediousness of repairing miles of circuitry nor the depressing
environment of Olympus Station seemed to bother her. While he worked
with the men on the project she restored and reassembled circuits in
his quarters and at night they replaced them in the old ship. And the
God-Egg was rapidly becoming operational.

Kennon wondered what it was about Copper that made her so different from
the rest. Olympus didn't bother her at all. In fact she seemed to thrive
on the depressing atmosphere that filled the Station. Perhaps it was
because she had violated the tabu about the God-Egg so often that
ordinary superstition had no effect upon her. He shrugged. He had
troubles enough without worrying about Copper's motivations, and not the
least of these was taking the God-Egg into space.

Kennon looked forward to blast-off with distinct misgivings. There was
too much about the ancient spacer that was strange--and too much that
was terrifying.

Basically the ship was an ion-jet job with atomic primaries and a
spindizzy converter that might possibly take her up as high as middle
yellow Cth--far enough to give her a good turn of speed, but not enough
to compensate for timelag. Her screens were monstrosities, double
polyphase lattices that looked about as spacetight as so many sieves.
There were no acceleration dampers, no temporal compensators, no
autopilot, no four-space computer, and the primaries operated on nuclear
rather than binding energy. The control chairs weren't equipped with
forcefields, but instead had incredibly primitive safety webs that held
one in place by sheer tensile strength. Taking a ship like that into
space was an open invitation to suicide. A man needed a combination of
foolhardy bravery and incredible fatalism to blast off in a can like
this. He had the stimulus, but the knowledge of what he would face
troubled him more than he cared to admit. More and more, as he
understood the ship, he was amazed at the courage of the ancients who
had blithely leaped into hyperspace in these flying coffins with no more
motivation than to see what was beyond the nearest star. And in ships
more primitive than this men had swept through the star systems nearest
Earth in the outward expansion of the First Millennium.

He sighed. The breed of man must have been tough in the old days--and
he'd soon be finding out if any of that ancient toughness remained.

He opened the door to his quarters.

Copper was sitting in his favorite chair, a pile of completed assemblies
neatly stacked beside her, and a disorderly file of crumpled cloth at
her feet. Her face was sullen as she looked up at him. "I've had about
all of this I'm going to take," she said mutinously as she stirred the
heap of cloth with a bare foot. "Not even you are going to make me wear
those--things!"

Kennon sighed. It was the same old story. For months he had been trying
patiently to indoctrinate Copper with a minimum of civilized habits, but
she was quite literally a savage. In her entire lifetime she had never
worn clothing, and to encase her body in hose, kilts, blouse, and
sandals was a form of torture. She scratched, wiggled, and twisted at
the garments until she looked as bad as she felt, and would usually
finish a session by tearing off the offending clothes and sulking. She
was doing it now.

"You must act like a civilized human being," Kennon said mildly. "You're
simply going to have to learn to wear these clothes properly."

"Why? I'm more comfortable as I am."

"That's not the point. You are going to be living in human society and
you must act human. The only planet where you could get away with nudity
is Santos, and we're not going there."

"Why not?"

"I've explained it time and again. We'll have to go to Beta. That's the
only place I know where you'll have a fair hearing. And on Beta people
wear clothes. They have to. It's cold, even in summer, and in the
wintertime, there's snow."

"What's snow?"

"Ice crystals that fall like rain, but I've told you this before."

"And I still don't believe it."

"Believe it or not you're going to wear those things. Now put them on!"

She looked at him with mutiny on her face. "All right, slave driver,"
she muttered as she picked up the clothing, "but I hope you'll itch
someday and be unable to scratch."

"And try to wear those garments more gracefully. You make them look like
a sack."

"They feel like one. I keep thinking that all I need is a tag around my
neck."

"You haven't much time to get used to them," Kennon said. "We're leaving
this week."

"So soon?"

"Yes--and you'll wear those things to the ship, into the ship, and all
the time we're on the ship. You'll keep wearing clothing until it looks
right."

"Slave driver!" Copper hissed.

"Slave," Kennon answered equably.

Copper giggled. The sound was utterly unexpected, and completely
incongruous. That was the wonder of her, Kennon reflected. Her mercurial
temperament made life something that was continually exciting She was a
never-ending delight.



CHAPTER XVII

It was the last trip. Kennon loaded the jeep with the last-minute items
he would need. The four reactor cores in their lead cases went aboard
last and were packed inside a pile of lead-block shielding.

He helped Copper in and looked back without regret as the bulk of
Olympus Station vanished below him in the dusk. The last of the work
crew had left that afternoon. The station was ready for occupancy.
His assignment had been completed. He felt an odd pleasure at having
finished the job. Alexander might not be happy about his subsequent
actions, but he could have no complaint about what he did while he was
here.

"Well--say good-bye to Flora," he said to Copper.

"I don't want to," she said. "I don't want to leave."

"You can't stay. You know that."

She nodded. "But that doesn't make me any less regretful."

"Regretful?"

"All right--scared. We're going to try to make the God-Egg fly again.
Not only is it sacrilege, but as you've often said, it's dangerous. I
have no desire to die."

"You have two courses--"

"I know--you've pointed them out often enough," Copper said. "And since
you decided to go I'd go with you even though I knew the Egg would blow
up."

"You're quite a girl," Kennon said admiringly. "Did I ever tell you that
I love you?"

"Not nearly often enough," Copper said. "You could do it every day and
I'd never get tired of hearing it."

The jeep settled over the lava wall. "We'll leave it in the passageway
when we're through," Kennon said. "Maybe it will survive blast-off."

"Why worry about it?" Copper asked.

"I hate destroying anything needlessly," Kennon said.

"And since we have plenty of time, we might as well be neat about our
departure."

He was wrong, of course, but he didn't know that.

* * *

Douglas Alexander checked the radarscope and whistled in surprise at
the picture it revealed. "So that's where he's going," he said softly
to himself. "Cousin Alex was right as usual." He grimaced unpleasantly.
"He's up to something--that's for sure." His face twisted into an
expression that was half sneer, half triumph. "This is going to be
fun." He moved the control, and his airboat, hovering silently at five
thousand meters, dropped toward the ground in free fall as Douglas
loosened the Burkholtz in the holster at his waist. "But what is he
doing?" he muttered. The question hung unanswered in the still air of
the cabin as the airboat dropped downward.

Douglas hadn't been impressed with Blalok's attempt at a delaying
action. Normally he might have been, but his fear of his cousin was
greater than his respect for Blalok. The superintendent had only
succeeded in accomplishing something he had not intended when he had
tried to dissuade Douglas from visiting Kennon. He had made Douglas
cautious. The airboat and long-range surveillance had been the result.
For the past two nights Douglas had hung over Olympus Station, checking
the place--to leave at dawn when the new day's work began. For two
nights Kennon had been lucky. He had departed for the Egg shortly before
Douglas took up his station, and had returned after the watcher had
called it a night and had returned home. But this last night, Kennon
left late--and his departure was noted.

"Wonder who's the girl with him?" Douglas said as the boat plunged down.
"Well, I'll be finding out in a minute."

Kennon's head jerked upward at the sound of air whistling past the
airboat's hull, and a wave of icy coldness swept through his chest.
There was no question that he was discovered. His shoulders sagged.

"Well--it was a good try," he said bitterly as Copper looked at him with
sudden terror on her face.

"I don't want to die," she wailed.

"You won't--not if I can help it," Kennon said. "Move away from
me--quickly!"

"But--"

"Do as I say!" Kennon's voice was sharp. "And keep that hood over your
face."

The airboat settled softly on the ash in front of him, the door snapped
open and Douglas dropped to the ground, Burkholtz jutting from his pudgy
fist.

"My, my," Douglas said, "what have we here? Dr. Kennon and a woman!
I thought better of you than that, Doctor. And all dressed up in
antiradiation suits. This is interesting. Just what are you doing up
here on the mountain so late at night--prospecting?"

"You might call it that," Kennon said. His body sagged with relief.
Douglas thank Ochsner it was Douglas! He was running true to
form--talking when he should have been shooting.

Douglas jerked his head toward Copper, standing a few feet to his left.
"Who is she?"

"None of your business," Kennon snapped, hoping that his outburst
covered Copper's gasp of surprise and fear, and knowing that it didn't.

"I'm making it my business. There's something funny going on around
here."

Kennon blinked. Could it be that Douglas didn't know? Had he been
watching them on radar? Durilium was radar-transparent. It absorbed
and dissipated electromagnetic waves rather than reflecting them. For a
second he felt a tiny surge of hope.

"Stand where you are," Douglas said as he stepped over to the
half-paralyzed Copper and jerked the hood back from her face. For a
moment he looked puzzled. "Just who are you?" he demanded. "I don't
recall seeing you before." And then recognition dawned. "Old Doc's
Lani!" he gasped.

"She works for me now," Kennon said.

Douglas laughed. It wasn't a nice sound. "All dressed up?" he asked.
"Nice work."

"That's my fault," Kennon said.

"You know the rules," Douglas said. "I could blast you both."

"Go ahead," Kennon said, "but if you do, you'll never find out what
we're doing up here."

Douglas hesitated. Kennon's voice was flat and filled with utter
conviction.

"There's a reason why Copper's wearing that suit," Kennon continued,
"and you won't know that either."

The Burkholtz swiveled around to point at Kennon's belly. "I've had
about enough of this. Let's have it. Tell me what you're doing here!"

"I'll do better than that," Kennon said promptly. "I'll show you. You'll
be surprised at what we've uncovered." He made his muscles relax, and
forced himself to speak naturally. Copper, he noted, was still rigid
with terror. The Alexanders--any of them--were everything he had said
they were. They were the masters here. And despite Copper's boast, she
was as susceptible to their influence as any other Lani.

"All right," Douglas said, "show me this thing I'd never be able to
find without your help." He half turned to Copper. "Stay where you are,
Lani," he said. "Don't move until I come back."

"Yes, Man Douglas," Copper replied. Her voice was flat, colorless, and
submissive.

Kennon shuddered. He had never heard precisely that tone from her
before. One word from Douglas and she had become a zombie--a mindless
muscle preparation that existed only to obey. Anger filled him--anger
that one he loved could be ordered by someone who wasn't worth a
third of her--anger that she obeyed--anger at his own impotence and
frustration. It wasn't a clean anger. It was a dark, red-splashed thing
that struggled and writhed inside him, a fierce unreasoning rage that
seethed and bubbled yet could not break free. For an instant, with
blinding clarity, Kennon understood the feelings of the caged male Lani
on Otpen One. And he sympathized.

"Follow me," he said and started around the ship.

"Stay--no--go ahead," Douglas said, "but remember, I'm right behind
you."

Kennon walked straight up to the pit and pointed down at the dark bulk
of the Egg., concealed in the shadows of the bottom.

"That's it," he said.

"What? I don't see anything," Douglas said suspiciously.

"Here--I'll shine a light." Kennon reached for his belt.

"No you don't! I know that trick. You're not going to blind me. Take
that torch loose carefully--that's it--now hand it to me." Douglas' hand
closed over the smooth plastic. Cautiously he turned on the beam and
directed it downward.

"A spacer!" he gasped. "How did that get here?" He leaned forward to
look into the pit as a dark shadow materialized behind him.

Kennon choked back the involuntary cry of warning that rose in his
throat. Copper! His muscles tensed as her arm came up and down--a
shadow almost invisible in the starlight. The leaning figure of Douglas
collapsed like a puppet whose strings had been suddenly released. The
torch dropped from his hand and went bouncing and winking down the wall
of the pit, followed by Douglas--a limp bundle of arms and legs that
rotated grotesquely as he disappeared down the slope. Starlight gleamed
on the Burkholtz lying on the lip of the crater, where it had fallen
from his hand.

"I told you that not even Man Alexander could order me since I gave my
love to you," Copper said smugly as she peered over the edge of the pit,
a chunk of lava gripped in one small capable hand. "Maybe this proves
it."

"Douglas isn't Alexander," Kennon said slowly as he picked up the
blaster, "but I believe you."

"Didn't I act convincingly?" she said brightly.

"Very," he said. "You fooled me completely."

"The important thing was that I fooled Douglas."

"You did that all right. Now let's get him out of that pit."

"Why?"

"The jet blast will fry him when we take off."

"What difference would that make?"

"I told you," Kennon said, "that I never destroy things
unnecessarily--not even things like Douglas."

"But he would have destroyed you."

"That's no excuse for murder. Now go back to the jeep and fetch a rope.
I'll go down and get him out."

"Do we have to bother with him?" Copper asked, and then shrugged. It
was an eloquent gesture expressing disgust, resignation, and unwilling
compliance in one lift of smoothly muscled shoulders.

"There's no question about it," Kennon said. "You're becoming more human
every day."

He chuckled as he slid over the edge of the pit following the path
Douglas had taken a moment before. He found him sitting on a pile of
ashes, shaking his head.

"What happened?" Douglas asked querulously. There was fear in his voice.

"Copper hit you on the head with a rock," Kennon said as he bent over
and retrieved the torch, still burning near Douglas' feet.

"The Lani?" Douglas' voice was incredulous.

"Not a Lani," Kennon corrected. "She's as human as you or I."

"That's a lie," Douglas said.

"Maybe this spacer's a lie too. Her ancestors came in it--a pair
of humans named Alfred and Melissa Weygand. They were Christian
missionaries from a planet called Heaven out in Ophiuchus Sector. Went
out to convert aliens and landed here when their fuel ran out."
Kennon paused. "That was about four millennia ago. Their descendants,
naturally, reverted to barbarism in a few generations, but there's
enough evidence in the ship to prove that the Lani were their
children."

"But the tails--the differences--the failure of the test," Douglas said.

"Mutation," Kennon replied. "Those old spindizzy converters weren't
too choosy about how they scattered radiation. And they had come a long
way." He paused, looking down at Douglas, feeling a twinge of pity for
the man. His world was crumbling. "And there was no other human blood
available to filter out their peculiarities. It might have been done
during the first couple of generations, but constant inbreeding fixed
the genetic pattern."

"How did you discover this?" Douglas asked.

"Accident," Kennon said briefly.

"You'll never be able to prove they're human!" Douglas said.

"The ship's log will do that."

"Not without a humanity test--they can't pass that."

"Sorry to disappoint you. Your grandfather used the wrong sort of sperm.
Now if there had been a Betan in the crew--"

"You mean she's pregnant!"

Kennon nodded. "There's been mutation on Beta," he said. "And it's
apparently a similar one to hers. Betan-Lani matings are fertile."

Douglas's shoulders sagged, and then straightened. "I don't believe it,"
he said. "You're just a damned sneaking spy. Somehow or other you got
a spacer in here after you wormed your way into Cousin Alex's
confidence--and now you're going to space out with the nucleus of a new
farm. Just wait. When Alex learns of this the galaxy'll be too small to
hold you."

"Don't babble like a fool!" Kennon said with disgust. "How could I land
a spacer here without being spotted? You sound like a two-credit novel.
And even if I did--would it be a can like this?" Kennon played the torch
over the blue-black durilium protruding from the ashes.

Douglas' eyes widened as he took in the details of construction. "What
an antique!" he blurted. "Where did you get this can?"

"I found it here."

"Tell me another one."

"You won't believe," Kennon said flatly, "because you don't dare
believe. You have a mental block. You've killed, maimed, tortured--
treated them like animals--and now your mind shrinks from admitting
they're human. You know what will happen if the old court decision is
reversed. It will wreck your little empire, dry up your money, break
you--and you can't stand the thought of that. You don't dare let us
leave, yet you can't stop us because I have your blaster and I'd just
as soon shoot you as look at your rotten face. Now get on your feet and
start climbing if you want to stay alive. We're getting out of here, and
you'll fry inside this pit."

"Where are you taking me?"

"Back to your airboat. I'm going to tie you up and set you off on
autopilot. You'll be able to get loose quickly enough but it'll be too
late to stop us. We'll be gone, and you can think of how you'll manage
to face the human race."

"I hope you blow yourself and that antique clear out of space."

"We might. But you'll never know for sure. But mark this--if I live I'll
be back with the Brotherhood. You can count on it."

They struggled up the side of the pit and halted, panting, on the rim.
"How much radiation was down there?" Douglas asked worriedly.

"Not enough to hurt you."

"That's good." Douglas accepted the statement at face value, a fact
which failed to surprise Kennon. "You know," he said, "I've been around
Lani all my life. And I know that they're not human. No self-respecting
human would take a tenth of what they put up with."

"Their ancestors didn't," Kennon said. "They fought to the end. But your
Grandfather was a smart man even though he was a Degrader."

"He wasn't!" Douglas exploded. "No Alexander is a Degrader."

"He realized," Kennon went on, "that he'd never succeed in enslaving the
Lani unless he separated the sexes. And since women are more subjective
in their outlook--and more pliable--he picked them for his slaves. The
males he retired to stud. Probably the fact that there were more women
than men helped him make up his mind.

"In every society," Kennon went on inexorably, "there are potential
freeman and potential slaves. The latter invariably outnumber the
former. They're cowards: the timid, the unsacrificing--the ones that
want peace at any price--the ones who will trade freedom for security.
Those were the ones who hid rather than risk their lives fighting
the aggressor. Those were the ones who survived. Old Alexander had a
ready-made slave cadre when he finished off the last of the warriors.
For four centuries the survivors have been bred and selected to
perpetuate slave traits. And the system works. The men don't want
freedom--they want liberty to kill each other. The women don't want
freedom--they want males. And they'd serve them precisely as the Sarkian
women serve their menfolk. You've killed any chance they had to become
a civilization. It's going to take generations perhaps before they're
reoriented. There's plenty you Alexanders should answer for."

"If there's any fault, it's yours," Douglas snarled. "We were doing all
right until you came here. We'd still be doing all right if I had shot
you both." His shoulders sagged. "I should have killed you when I had
the chance," he said bitterly.

"But you didn't," Kennon said, "and to show my gratitude I'm letting you
get away with a whole skin. I don't expect you to be grateful, but at
least you'll not be on my conscience. I don't enjoy killing, not even
things like you."

Douglas sneered. "You're soft--a soft sentimental fool."

"Admitted," Kennon said, "but that's my nature."

"Yet you'd destroy the family, wreck Outworld Enterprises, and throw a
whole world into chaos over a few thousand animals. I don't understand
you."

"They're human," Kennon said flatly.

"Admitting they might once have been, they're not now."

"And whose fault is that?"

"Not ours," Douglas said promptly. "If there is any fault it's that of
the court who decided they were humanoid."

"You didn't help any."

"Why should we? Does one treat a shrake like a brother?--or a varl?--or
a dog? We treat them like the animals they are. And we've done no worse
with the Lani. Our consciences are clear."

Kennon laughed humorlessly. "Yet this clear conscience makes you want
to kill me, so you can keep on treating them as animals--even though you
know they're human."

"I know nothing of the sort. But you're right about the killing, I'd
kill you cheerfully if I had the chance. It's our necks if you get away
with this. Of course, you probably won't, but why take the chance. I
like my neck more than I like yours."

"You're honest at any rate," Kennon admitted. "And in a way I don't
blame you. To you it's probably better to be a rich slaver living off
the legacy of a Degrader than a penniless humanitarian. But you've lost
your chance."

Douglas screamed with rage. He whirled on Kennon, his face a distorted
mask of hate.

"Hold it!" Kennon barked. "I don't want to kill you, but I'll burn a
hole clear through your rotten carcass if you make another move. I have
no love for your kind."

Douglas spat contemptuously. "You haven't got the guts," he snarled. But
he didn't move.

"Just stand still--very still," Kennon said softly. The iron in his
voice was not hidden by the quiet tone.

Douglas shivered. "I'll get you yet," he said, but there was no force in
the threat.

"Here's the rope you wanted," Copper said as she emerged abruptly from
the darkness. "I had a hard time finding it."

"You haven't been too long," Kennon said. "Now tie Douglas' hands behind
him while I keep him covered."

"It's a pleasure," Copper murmured.



CHAPTER XVIII

"I'm frightened," Copper said, twisting uncomfortably in the shock chair
beside Kennon's.

"After you have been so brave?" Kennon asked. "That's nonsense. It's
just nervous reaction. Now web in like I showed you. It's time for
blast-off. We don't dare wait much longer."

"All right--but I have a feeling that this isn't right. Something is
going to go wrong."

"I hope you don't have precognition." Kennon smiled. "I've checked
everything. The ship is as good as she'll ever be. There's nothing more
that we can do."

"There's one consolation," Copper said wanly. "At we'll die together."

"There's a better chance that we'll live together."

"I hope so."

"Ready?" Kennon asked.

She nodded.

He flipped the switches that would send the fuel rods into the reactor.
Below them a soft, barely audible whine ascended the sonic scale to
a point of irritating inaudibility. Kennon smiled. The spindizzy was
functioning properly. He flipped a second bank of switches and a dull
roar came from the buried stem. Ashes and pumice heated to incandescence
were blown through the air. Molten drops of radioactive lava skittered
across the durilium hull as Kennon advanced the power. The whole stem
of the ship was immersed in a seething lake of bolling rock as the Egg
lifted slowly with ponderous dignity into the night sky.

"Hang on!" Kennon said. "I'm going to hyper." His hand moved a red lever
and the Egg shimmered and vanished with a peculiar wrenching motion
into an impossible direction that the mind could not grasp. And the
interceptor missile from Otpen One nosed through the space the Egg had
occupied.

* * *

"We made it!" Kennon said, looking across the writhing semifluid control
board, shifting oddly in the harsh yellow monochromatic light that
pervaded the cabin. The screens were leaking like sieves, but they were
holding well enough to keep Cth yellow from being anything more than an
annoyance. He glanced over at Copper, a fantastically elongated Copper
who looked like a madman's dream of chaos.

And Copper screamed! The sound echoed and re-echoed, dying away with a
lingering discordant reverberation that made his skin tingle.

"Copper! It's all right! It's all right! Stop it!"

Copper screamed again and her elongated figure suddenly foreshortened
and collapsed into a small writhing ball from which two small pink hands
emerged clutching at a gelid mass of air that flowed sluggishly around
them.

And Kennon knew what he had forgotten! Hyperspace with leaky screens was
nothing to inflict upon an unprepared mind. It is one thing to endure
partial exposure after months of training, with experienced medics
standing by to help you through the shock phase, but quite another to
be thrust from a safe and sheltered existence into the mind shattering
distortions of the Cth continuum.

The Egg was old. Her screens, never good at best, were hardly more than
filters. Through the hull, through the drive lattice, the viciously
distorted Cth environment seeped into the ship turning prosaic shapes
of controls and instruments into writhing masses of obscene horror that
sent extensions wiggling off into nothingness at eye-aching angles. A
spaceman could take this--knowing it wasn't real--but a tyro could not.

Copper collapsed. Her mind, assaulted by sensations no untrained person
should experience, went into shock. But she wasn't granted the mercy
of unconsciousness. Terrified by a pseudo reality that surpassed her
wildest nightmares, she stared wide-eyed at the control room and the
thing that had been Kennon. She screamed until her throat was raw,
until the monster beside her touched her with Kennon's hands. Then,
mercifully, she felt a stinging in her arm and all sensation ceased.

Kennon stared glumly at the controls. Fleming alone knew how many
objective years were passing outside as they hurtled through four-space.
Subjectively it would only be hours aboard the Egg, but a decade--or
maybe a century--might pass outside this mad universe where neither time
nor speed had meaning. The old ships didn't have temporal compensators,
nor could they travel through upper bands of Cth where subjective
and objective time were more nearly equal. They were trapped in
a semi-stasis of time as the ship fled on through the distorted
monochromatic regions that bypassed normal space.

The Egg slipped smoothly out of the hyper jump, back into the normal
universe. Beta floated above them, the blue shield of her atmosphere
shining softly in the light of Beta's sun.

"Couldn't hit it that good again in a hundred tries," Kennon gloated.
"Halfway across the galaxy--and right on the nose." He looked at the
shock chair beside him. Copper was curled into a tight ball inside the
confining safety web, knees drawn up, back bent, head down--arms wrapped
protectingly around her legs--the fetal position of catatonic shock.

He shook her shoulder--no response. Her pulse was thready and irregular.
Her breathing was shallow. Her lips were blue. Her condition was
obvious--space shock--extreme grade. She'd need medical attention if she
was going to live. And she'd need it fast!

"Just why, you educated nitwit," he snarled at himself, "didn't you have
sense enough to give her that injection of Sonmol before we hypered! You
haven't the sense of a decerebrate Capellan grackle!"

He turned on the radio. "Emergency!" he said. "Any station! Space-shock
case aboard. Extreme urgency."

"Identify yourself--give your license. Over."

"What port are you?"

"Hunterstown--will you please identify? Over."

"Your co-ordinates," Kennon snapped. "Over."

"280.45--67.29 plus. Repeat--request your identification."

"Pilot Kennon, Jac, Beta 47M 26429. I have no I.D. for the ship--and
you'll see why when I land. Over."

"Hunterstown Port to Kennon. You are not--repeat not--cleared to land.
Go into orbit and report your position. Over."

"Sorry, Hunterstown. You wouldn't have checked in if you didn't have
room, and a hospital. This is an emergency. I'm setting down. Out."

"But--" The words got no farther. Kennon was already spinning the ship.

"All right--we have you on the scope. But this is a class one violation.
You may come in on Landing Beam One."

"Sorry. I have no GCA."

"What?--what sort of ship are you flying?" The voice was curious.

"I'm matching intrinsics over your port. Talk me in when I break through
the overcast."

"Talk you in?"

"That's right. My instruments are obsolete."

"Great Halstead! What else?"

"I have an Ion drive. Plus two radioactive."

"Oh no!--And you still want to come in?"

"I have to. My passenger's in shock. She's going to have a baby."

"All right--I'll try to get you down in one piece."

"Have an ambulance ready," Kennon said.

Kennon lowered the Egg through the overcast. Ground control picked him
up smoothly and took him down as though it had been rehearsed. The Egg
touched down in the radioactive area of the port. Decontamination jets
hissed, sluicing the ship to remove surface contamination.

"Ochsner! what sort of a ship is that?" Ground Control's startled voice
came over the annunciator.

"It's an old one," Kennon said.

"That's a gross understatement. Stand by for boarders. Ambulance coming
up."

Kennon opened the airlock and two radiation-suited men entered. "At
least you had sense enough to wear protective clothing in this hotbox,"
one said as they carefully unwebbed Copper and carried her out of the
lock. "You wait here. The Port Captain wants to see you."

"Where are you taking her? What Center?" Kennon asked.

"What should you care? You've nearly killed her. The idea of taking
a pregnant woman up in this death trap! What in Fleming's name's the
matter with your brain?"

"I had to," Kennon said. "I had to. It was a matter of life and death."
For once, he thought wryly, the cliche was true.

The Betan's face behind the transparent helmet was disgusted and
unbelieving. "I hear that sort of thing every day," he said. "Am I
supposed to believe it?"

"You'd believe it if you'd have been where I was," Kennon muttered.
"Now--whe're are you taking her?" he demanded.

The man arched blond eyebrows. "To the local Medical Center--where else?
There's only one in this area."

"Thanks," Kennon said.

He watched the ambulance flit off as he waited for the Spaceport Patrol.
There was no further need for the protection suit, so he peeled it off
and hung it in the control-room locker. Copper was right, he mused. It
did itch.

The Port Captain's men were late as usual--moving gingerly through the
radiation area. A noncom gestured for him to enter their carryall. "Port
Captain wants to see you," he said.

"I know," Kennon replied.

"You should have waited upstairs."

"I couldn't. It was a matter of medicine," Kennon said.

The noncom's face sobered. "Why didn't you say so? All you said was that
it was an emergency."

"I've been away. I forgot."

"You shouldn't have done that. You're a Betan, aren't you?"

Kennon nodded.

They drove to the Port Office, where Kennon expected--and got--a bad
time from the port officials. He filled out numerous forms, signed
affidavits, explained his unauthorized landing, showed his spaceman's
ticket, defended his act of piloting without an up-to-date license,
signed more forms, entered a claim for salvage rights to the Egg, and
finally when the Legal Division, the Traffic Control Division, the
Spaceport Safety Office, Customs, Immigration, and Travelers Aid had
finished with him, he was ushered into the presence of the Port Captain.

The red-faced chunky officer eyed him with a cold stare. "You'll be
lucky, young man, if you get out of this with a year in Correction. Your
story doesn't hang together."

It didn't, Kennon thought. But there was no sense telling all of it to
a Port Captain. Under no circumstances could the man be any help to him.
He had neither the power nor the prestige to request a Brotherhood Board
of Inquiry. In rank, he was hardly more than a glorified Traffic Control
officer. It would do no good to tell him an improbable tale of slavery
on a distant planet. The only thing to do was wait out the storm and
hope it would pass. If worst came to worst he'd use his rank, but he'd
made enough stir already. He doubted if the Captain had authority to
order him into Detention--but he was certain to get a lecture. These
minor officials loved to tell someone off. He gritted his teeth. He'd
endure it for Copper's sake--and to get out of here quietly. Alexander
would undoubtedly have agents posted by now, and his only chance for
temporary freedom of action was to get out of here with as little fuss
as possible.

He sat quietly, his flushed face and tight jaw muscles betraying his
impatience as the Captain paced up and down and talked on and on. The
man sounded like he could go for hours. With increasing impatience
Kennon listened to the cadenced flow of complaint and condemnation,
occasionally inserting a "Yes, sir" or "Sorry, sir" or "No, sir" as the
words flowed around him.

However, there had to be a breaking point somewhere, and the monotony
was beginning to wear his temper thin. Another five minutes, he
reflected, was about all he could take.

The door chime rang softly.

"Come in," the Port Captain said, breaking off in mid-tirade. The change
in his manner was so abrupt that Kennon couldn't help smiling.

A young blond man in an interne's gray uniform entered the room.

"Yes, Doctor," the Port Captain said. "What can I do for you?"

"Do you have a Jac Kennon here? Dr. Jac Kennon?"

"Did you say doctor?" the Port Captain said in a half-strangled voice.

"You never let me tell you," Kennon said mildly, "that my landing here
was a matter of medicine. Technically you have contributed to a delay in
treatment."

The Port Captain's face paled. "Why didn't you say something?" he said.

"Against your gale of wind I would be but a faint breeze," Kennon said
coldly. He turned to the interne. "I'm Dr. Kennon." They bowed formally
to each other.

"I'm Smalley, sir, from the medical center. Dr. Brainard sends his
compliments and requests that you join him for consultation."

"The Port Captain--" Kennon began.

"Don't worry about it, Doctor. I'll relinquish responsibility to Dr.
Brainard," the Captain said.

"I have placed a formal written request with your office," Smalley said
stiffly. "You are relieved of further charge. Dr. Kennon is urgently
needed. It is a matter of medicine."

The Captain looked relieved. On Beta it was poor policy to interfere
with the doings of doctors and engineers--or even doctors of philosophy.

"Very well. He's yours--and I'm glad to be rid of him." The Port Captain
bowed to Kennon and Smalley and stalked out of the office.

"Pompous little man," Kennon observed, "but he certainly can talk."

"Oh--you know these Administrative people," the interne said
depreciatingly. "One mustn't mind them. They're necessary nuisances."
He eyed Kennon curiously. "How is it that you didn't stand on your
professional rights?"

"I have my reasons--but they have nothing to do with medicine."

"Oh--I see. Ethical." The interne's voice was faintly sarcastic.

"Manners, Doctor--manners." Kennon's voice was gentle but the interne
flushed a dull red.

"Sorry, sir."

"Don't mention it. It's normal for a graduate to confuse liberty with
license." Kennon smiled. "Don't worry. I shan't report you."

"That's good of you, sir." Smalley's face registered relief. Demerits
were difficult to erase--particularly ones of courtesy.

Kennon wondered if the young man would report himself. He doubted it.
The interne didn't look the type--probably he was dated for some obscure
job, like a general practitioner. He shrugged. It took all kinds to make
a profession. Even the Smalleys had their place.

"That girl you brought in," Smalley said as they entered a white
car emblazoned with the three crosses, red, blue, and green, that
represented the three fields of medicine. "She's an interesting case.
I've never seen space shock before. And the patient herself--one would
hardly believe she was a Betan."

"She isn't," Kennon said.

"So?" Blond eyebrows rose in inverted U's of surprise. "But that's
hardly possible. Our tests indicate-"

"Don't you think that this is a matter for Dr. Brainard?" Kennon said
icily. "Protocol--"

"Of course. Stupid of me--but the case is so interesting. Half the
center staff have seen her already. I wasn't proposing to discuss the
case. It wouldn't be proper. Even though you are only a veterinarian."

"Only?" Kennon's voice was hard. "I shouldn't have to remind you of
this, Mr. Smalley--but I have been for the past two years on a world of
bad manners. I expected better here at home."

Smalley flushed to the roots of his straw-colored hair. "Sorry, Doctor,"
he muttered. "I don't know what's the matter with me."

"I can tell you," Kennon said. "You've just graduated."

"How did you know?" Smalley said.

"I was a graduate once, myself--not too long ago."

"How long, sir?"

"Class of Eighty-seven."

"That's twelve years ago," Smalley said.

Kennon nodded. Ten years lost. Not bad--not bad at all. But Alexander
could have done a lot in ten years.

"I meant no disrespect," Smalley said worriedly.

"I know it. But if you intend to practice on Beta, you'd better
polish your professional manner. Now where I was, it didn't make much
difference. Laymen often called me 'Doc.'"

Smalley was properly shocked. "I hope you didn't encourage them, sir."

"It was impossible to discourage them," Kennon said. "After all, when
the man who hires you--"

"Oh--entrepreneurs," Smalley said in a tone that explained everything.

* * *

The car stopped in front of the Medical Center's staff entrance. "This
way, sir," Smalley said. He led the way down a green-tiled corridor
to an elevator--then down another corridor past a pair of soft-footed
nurses who eyed them curiously--looking at Kennon's tunic and sandals
with mild disapproval in their eyes. Smalley stopped and knocked softly
on a closed door.

"Enter," said a pleasant baritone voice from the annunciator.

"Dr. Brainard--Dr. Kennon," Smalley said.

Kennon liked the man instantly. A plump, pink-cheeked man of middle
age, with prematurely white hair, Dr. Will Brainard combined a fatherly
appearance with an impression of quick intelligence. The fat that
sheathed his stocky body had obviously not touched his mind. Brainard
rose from the deep chair near the window where he had been sitting,
knocked the ashes from his pipe, and bowed stiffly. His eyes--sharp
points of blue in the smooth pinkness of his face--surveyed Kennon
curiously.

"So you're the young man who takes untrained pregnant women for rides in
old-fashioned spacers," he said. "Didn't you know what would happen?"

"I was in a hurry, Doctor," Kennon said.

"Obviously. Now tell me about it." Brainard looked at the eager-faced
interne standing behind Kennon. "That will be all, Smalley," he said.

Kennon waited until the door closed. "Ordinarily," he said, "I'd never
have done a thing like that, but there were some very pressing reasons.
However, I should have given her an injection of Somnol before we
started. I'm criminally liable. If anything happens to her--" His voice
was tight with worry.

"You'd give her an injection?" Brainard said. "I hope you didn't mean
that."

"But I did, sir. I've given thousands of Lani injections."

"What's a Lani?"

"She is, sir. The impression has been that her race isn't human."

"Nonsense--it's obvious she is."

"A Brotherhood Court of Inquiry didn't think so."

"Hmm. Is that so?"

"Yes, sir.--But before I go on, tell me, how is she?"

"Oh, she'll be fine. A little mental therapy and plenty of rest are all
she needs. She's a remarkably healthy young woman. But this is beside
the point. There are a number of unusual features about this case that
need investigation." Brainard took a standard hospital form from his
desk. "Mind if I ask you some questions, Doctor?"

"Not at all but you are due for some unpleasant shocks as you go through
that form."

"I believe I can survive them," Brainard said dryly.

"This is professional confidence--" Kennon began.

"Of course, of course," Brainard said impatiently. "Now let's get on
with it."

* * *

"This is the most amazing tale I've ever heard," Brainard said slowly.
"Are you certain you are telling the truth?"

Kennon grinned. "I don't blame you for not believing me--but the
evidence is conclusive, and there is enough documentary evidence in
the space ship--and in the fact of the ship itself to prove what I am
saying. Laboratory tests here will establish the fact that Copper's
child is also mine. And as for Flora, a Brotherhood Investigation Team
can prove that part."

"That will be attended to," Brainard said grimly.

"But how did you deduce she wasn't from a Betan colony?" Kennon asked.

Brainard smiled. "That wasn't hard. Her sun tan and the condition of her
feet proved she was a practicing nudist. No Betan girl ever practices
nudism to my knowledge. Besides, the I.D. tattoo under her left arm and
the V on her hip are no marks of our culture. Then there was another
thing--the serological analysis revealed no gerontal antibodies. She
had never received an injection of longevity compound in her life. This
might occur, but it's highly improbable. The evidence indicates that
she's extra-Betan."

Kennon nodded.

"But this business of her being fifteen years old! That's impossible.
She has the development of a woman of twenty-five."

"Remember the Alpha V colony?" Kennon said.




"Of course--oh--I see! It could be something like that.
Certainly--strong yellow G-type sun--an isolated colony serviced at
twenty-year intervals--there was a marked physical precocity."

"And if this had been continued for several millennia?" Kennon asked.

"Hmm--I see. Yes, it's possible. On Alpha V the colonists grew from
infancy to maturity in fifteen years."

"And wasn't Heaven one of our early colonies?"

"Yes--it was established after the Great Schism near the end of the
First Millennium--when science and religion split irrevocably on this
world. We packed the whole lot of them off to a world of their own where
they could develop as they pleased. They called it Heaven--odd name for
a fogworld--but there's no accounting for tastes." Brainard chuckled.

"I thought that was the case, but I couldn't remember. My ancient
history is pretty weak."

"You should read more," Brainard said. "But as I see it--this girl is of
Betan ancestry providing your theory and the facts coincide."

"Which could also explain why an outworld species of agerone would be
toxic. They tried to prolong Lani life and met with failure. Our plants
are mutant forms."

"Just as we are a mutant race," Brainard said, "or partly mutant." He
sighed. "You have brought us a great deal of trouble, Kennon. You are
bringing matters to a head. If our investigations prove your statements,
we are morally bound to open the Lani question. And if those people are
of Betan origin--that fellow Alexander will have plenty to answer for."

"I don't believe it is really his fault," Kennon said slowly. "I don't
think he has ever known the truth."

"Why didn't you tell him?"

"The answer to that should be obvious. Even though I trusted him
completely, I could never be sure. He has a Free Trader background
and those people can't he trusted where money's concerned. The whole
Kardonian culture is an outgrowth of Free Traderism: small business,
independent corporation, linear trusts, and all the cutthroat
competition such a culture would naturally have. It's a regular jungle
of Free Enterprise. I couldn't predict how he would react. He could
either act in a moral manner and make restitution, or he could quietly
cut our throats and go on with his business."

"I see. The temptation to cut a throat might be overwhelming."

"They fight commercial wars," Kennon said.

"Disgusting--utterly uncivilized! Under the circumstances you had no
other course. Still, they have no moral right to enslave human beings."

"There is always the element of doubt. Maybe they didn't know. After
all, an impartial court declared the Lani alien--and the Betan mutation
isn't known throughout the Brotherhood."

"One doesn't go around broadcasting data on the variations of one's germ
plasm," Brainard said. "That's a private affair--a matter of personal
privacy."

"And public safety?"

Brainard nodded. "We're no more courageous than any other civilization.
We have no desire to borrow trouble. We are content to leave things
alone."

"That's the trouble," Kennon said. "We're all content to leave things
alone. If I hadn't found the spaceship I'd not have been able to lay
aside my moral conditioning. And if I had not, Copper would not have
become pregnant and forced me into these drastic actions. It's even
possible that I would have done nothing." He grimaced. "And when I left
Alexander's employment mnemonic erasure would have removed all memory of
the Lani's human origin." He shrugged. "I still am not certain that it
wouldn't have been the wiser course. Naturally, once I knew, I couldn't
do anything else than what I did."

"Naturally," Brainard said. "Humanity reaches the heights when it faces
questions of moral responsibility."

"To mankind," Kennon added heavily. "We have a convenient blind spot
regarding our moral responsibility to other intelligent races."

"A harsh fact, but true--and who is to judge whether it is right or
wrong? We achieved dominance of Earth by our moral responsibility to
family, tribe, and nation--and we nearly exterminated ourselves when
we forgot that this responsibility went beyond nations and embraced
all mankind. We learned that after the Exodus. As for the other
races--perhaps someday we will learn moral responsibility for all
intelligence--but we are not ready for that yet. That's too big a mental
hurdle." Brainard sighed. "We are what we are, and we change slowly. But
we change."

"True enough," Kennon said. "But it's hard to be philosophical about
it."

"You're young. Live a couple of centuries and you will understand
patience."

Kennon smiled.

"You know," Brainard said thoughtfully, "you still have plenty of things
to do."

"I know. I'll have to make a transcript of this discussion, have
it witnessed, and make a sealed record. I have to arrange for the
reposition of the evidence inside the Egg, and a complete recording of
the Egg itself."

"And to be safe you'll need several facsimiles, properly attested. The
arms of these outworld entrepreneurs are long, and unfortunately not all
Betans are models of honesty."

"I'd better get started then."

"Let me help you," Brainard said. "I have a little influence in this
area--and your cause interests me." He picked up the phone on his desk.

Kennon sighed. He had found an ally.



CHAPTER XIX

"What are you going to do with that girl?" Brainard asked.

"Formalize our mating as soon as she is able to get out of bed," Kennon
replied.

"She is an ignorant, untrained savage!" Brainard protested. "You should
hear the stories the nurses tell about her!"

Kennon chuckled. "You don't have to tell me about those. I've lived with
Lani for two years. But she's not stupid."

"What are your plans?"

"After we establish her humanity legally," Kennon said, "I'm going to
send her to school."

"For twenty years?"

"If necessary. But I don't think it will take that long. She has some
schooling."

"But no training--and what of the Lani in the meantime?"

"I have plans for that. I'm going back to Kardon and give Alexander a
chance to make restitution. I think he is an honorable man. Slavery may
be as revolting to him as it is to any civilized human. He deserves a
chance to rectify his grandfather's error."

"That is reasonable--and in the best traditions of the Brotherhood."

"Furthermore, it's practical," Kennon said. "Alexander is the only one
fully qualified to handle the problems of enfranchisement. He's known
the Lani all his life, and he is an executive type. A Brotherhood
committee would probably botch the whole affair. What with colonial
jurisdiction, territorial rights, and all the legal quibbling that
committees love, the Lani would get a poor deal. And there's no reason
to wreck the lives of a couple of hundred million Kardonians because
the rightful owners of Kardon were illegally enslaved. That happened
too long ago to have any practical meaning. There are other and better
solutions."

"What?"

"How should I know?" Kennon asked. "But I'm sure Alexander will. That's
his field."

"All you have to worry about is whether he'll co-operate," Brainard
said.

"He'll co-operate once he knows the score," Kennon said confidently.
"And he'll have to make some form of restitution. But it shouldn't
involve Kardon. Actually the Lani were never in a position to develop
that world. They'd probably have remained on Flora indefinitely. The old
court records showed no tendency for their culture to expand. They
were an inbred group, a static, balanced society in harmony with their
environment. In nearly thirty-five hundred years their numbers increased
only to a few thousand. Actually there is a good possibility that the
race would ultimately have died out if Old Alexander hadn't enslaved
them and instituted a controlled breeding program. There are more Lani
alive today than there were at the height of their power. So in a way
Old Alexander did them a favor. He kept their race alive. All we can
expect is a fair and just settlement."

"But if Alexander doesn't co-operate?"

"That's where you come in. You'll be a watchdog. If you don't receive
annual progress reports from me--and see or talk to me personally every
second year, you are released from our bond and can do what you wish
with the evidence I've accumulated."

"We'd better get this into Private Record," Brainard said. "We can
transcribe an agreement and place it in the Public Repository."

"A good idea and we'd better waste no time. Alexander might still be
looking for me--and if he is, it's merely a question of time before he
catches up."

"Ten years have passed. It's doubtful. But we could keep you here at the
Center."

Kennon shook his head. "Too dangerous. And besides it would compromise
you. No--we'll get everything possible done to make the Lani's case
airtight, and then I'll return to Kardon. It will put our case in
a better light if it ever comes to trial, if I go back voluntarily.
Anyway--I'm morally bound to return. Now let's make this record."

"It's your decision," Brainard said. "And it's your neck--but I must
admit that I agree with you."

"I'll feel safer when we get the legal details clarified," Kennon said.

"And what of the girl?"

"Can you take care of her if I have to leave quickly?"

"Of course. I'll give her personal attention, and after she has her
child I'll see that she is sent to you."

"That's decent of you, Doctor."

"It's my moral responsibility," Brainard said as he slipped a new tape
into the recorder.

* * *

Copper responded quickly to rest and therapy. The space shock cleared up
quickly. The gerontological treatments put her to bed again, but within
a month she was completely normal, and her lifespan was now that of a
normal human. She could look forward to some four hundred years with
Kennon--and the prospect was not unpleasant. The Center fascinated her.
Never before had she seen a hospital devoted to the care and
treatment of humans. It was a far cry, in its polished steel and stone
magnificence, from the tiny primitive structure over which Kennon had
presided. Yet both places served the same purpose. Perhaps Kennon was
right--that there was no difference between man and Lani. The idea was
not nearly as unbelievable as it was at first.

"I never realized what it meant to be human," Copper said as she held
Kennon's hand. "It is nice to feel important and to know that our child
is a member of the race that rules the galaxy."

"So you're convinced?" Kennon chuckled.

"The serological identity--" she began.

"Hmm. You've been getting some education, I see."

"Well," Copper smiled, "I didn't think you wanted a stupid woman. I can
read--and since you are around so seldom nowadays, there is little else
to do. I've been reading history, medicine, and novels," she finished
proudly.

"A fine catholic selection," Kennon said, "Now if you add mathematics,
sociology, and philosophy you'll have a well-rounded basic education."

"Dr. Brainard has been trying something he calls 'hypno.' He says it
will help me learn faster. But I can't see that it's done much good."

"You won't until you need the information," Kennon said.

"That technique is only good for implanting basic knowledge, and much of
that will merely supplement or complete that which you already have. You
won't be conscious of it."

"Oh--I think I see what you mean."

"Of course, you'll have to continue your formal education. There's a
great deal for you to learn. It should keep you busy while I'm away."

"Away? Where are you going?"

"Back to Kardon."

"But you can't! Alexander will destroy you."

"I think not. After all, ten years have elapsed since we left there and
he's had plenty of time to think. Douglas must have told him about us.
I wouldn't be surprised if he has already done something about your
people."

She shivered. "He might--but the question is what would he do? He could
have killed them all!"

Kennon shook his head. "I don't think so. He never struck me as a mass
murderer."

She shook her head. "You don't know the Alexanders like I do. I was
raised by them. They're capable of anything. But what is this business
of ten years? That's silly. I haven't had my child yet--and it doesn't
take ten years of pregnancy to produce a baby."

"It's the difference between subjective and objective time," Kennon
said. "We traveled here through hyperspace--low Cth--in an uncompensated
ship, and there is little temporal flow in the levels below the blue."

"Oh--of course."

Kennon chuckled. "That would have been Greek to you a couple of weeks
ago. See where that basic data fits?"

"But I've always known that."

"You just think you have. Search your memory and see if I'm not right."

Copper shook her head. "It's very strange," she said. "But that's not
important. This idea of going back to Kardon, though--that's a different
thing--that is important."

"I have to do it. Not only because it's a personal moral obligation but
also because of the Lani. They must have their freedom."

"Providing there are any still alive."

"Stop being a calamity howler. Whatever Alexander may be, he's not a
butcher. He even loved a Lani once. You told me so yourself. And he
couldn't kill where he loved."

She nodded. "I suppose you're right, but I've never lost my fear of the
Man Alexander. He held the power of life and death over me. But if you
must go then I should go too. My obligation is greater than yours."

"Later," Kennon said. "You're not ready to return. It will be time
enough after you have learned some civilized habits."

Copper's face lengthened. "You mean like wrapping myself in cloth like
these people do?"

"That's part of it."

"Why can't they be sensible--or are they so ashamed of what the gods
gave them that they must hide themselves?"

"No, it's not that. At least not exactly. It's custom. And you must
learn to conform to customs--outwardly at least--no matter what you may
really think."

"Isn't that a form of lying?" Copper asked.

"I suppose so."

"Isn't that strange. Your society exalts truth, honor, morality, and
intelligence--yet you lie about your attitude."

"It's called diplomacy," Kennon said. "It's part of respect for others'
attitudes and beliefs, a necessary part of human relationships."

"Then you'd be a nudist on Santos?"

"Of course--even though I think it isn't proper, I couldn't inflict my
ideas and attitudes on the customs of an independent world."

"Oh--you think I'm doing that?"

"Yes--and it is a mark of barbarism."

"Sometimes you're not very nice," Copper said.

Kennon smiled wryly. "I suppose I'm not," he agreed.

"I'll try to be civilized," Copper said. "But if you go to Kardon--I'm
going with you."

"Perhaps," Kennon said. "We'll see how things turn out."

"You don't want me to go with you?"

"To be honest--no," Kennon said. "You're safe here, and until your
status is cleared by a Brotherhood court, I wouldn't care to place you
in Alexander's hands. And clearing your status is going to take time."

"You mean that I am still his property?"

"Yes. But there is a legal doubt that will prevent him from exercising
his claim as long as you stay on Beta. In the area where he has power,
that doubt might not hold. So until your status is definitely proven to
be human, you should not leave."

"And what happens if this court denies my claim?"

"Then we appeal to the Council. However, with the evidence we have, your
claim cannot reasonably be denied. The only question is one of time. It
may take years. Still, I don't think there is anything to worry about. I
don't think Alexander will give us any trouble, but there's no sense in
taking chances."

"You still think I'm a Lani," she said accusingly.

"I do not."

"Then you think that I'd obey Alexander, after what I did to Douglas."

"I can only repeat that Douglas isn't the Boss-man."

"I wish I knew what you really thought."

"That isn't hard. I think you should stay here until I get this business
straightened out."

"That's all?" she asked suspiciously. "After all, I know I'm not very
pretty now. And there's lots of Lani on Flora--"

"Oh, for Ochsner's sake! Do you think that I'm--" He paused, speechless.
"Just what do you think I am?"

"You're a man. And that's the trouble."

Kennon chuckled. "So that's it! You don't trust me."

"I love you," Copper said.

"Sometimes I wonder why men ever finalize their status with women,"
Kennon murmured. "It does no good. It doesn't convince the woman. She's
still fearful, jealous, and suspicious--always belittling her ability
to hold what she has, always alert for competition, clinging, holding,
absorbing--when she should be working as part of a team."

"That's not true!"

"Then prove it."

"How--by staying here while you go to the end of the galaxy and play
noble?"

"I'm only doing what I have to do."

"And so am I--and if you go I'm going with you."

Kennon shrugged. There was no sense arguing. The only thing to do was
make his plans and leave quietly. If she was faced with an established
fact, she might be more reasonable. He doubted it, but alone, she could
do nothing--and Brainard would see that she was comfortable. The salvage
money from the Egg would keep her from being a public charge. And he had
more banked in Albertsville which he could send her once he got there.
He'd start making plans to leave as soon as possible.

Copper looked up at him as he stood above her bed. Slowly she reached
out and placed one slim hand in his. "I know what you are thinking," she
said, "and--" her face twisted in a grimace of pain, and the hand in his
clutched with convulsive strength at his fingers.

"What's the matter?" he said.

"Nothing--it's perfectly normal," she said. "I'm just going to give you
a son. Now if you'd call for the doctor, perhaps we can get this over.
That pain was only twenty minutes from the last. I think it's about
time."

Kennon--who had attended several hundred Lani births and had developed a
certain callousness about them--was suddenly frightened and helpless
as he pushed the call button. He could feel the cold sweat form on his
forehead. He had started this. It was his fault if anything went wrong.
He wished that it was someone else rather than Copper who was going
through this trial. He was nervous, unsure, and guilty. In a word, he
felt like a man whose mate was giving birth to their first child.

* * *

"It's a boy," Dr. Brainard said. He smiled down at Kennon's haggard
face.

"How is Copper?" Kennon asked.

"Fine--she's healthy as a horse."

Kennon winced at the cliche It was so ancient that it had lost all
meaning. Most Betans didn't know what a horse was, let alone whether
it was healthy or not. From what Kennon could remember of veterinary
history, the horse wasn't too healthy an animal. It was rather delicate,
in fact.

"How is the child?" Kennon asked. It took a little courage to ask this
question. The baby could be anything from normal to a monstrosity.

"Perfectly normal," Brainard said. "A true Betan type even down to the
vestigial tail. We amputated that, of course."

"Thank Ochsner!" Kennon breathed. "I was afraid."

"Of course you were," Brainard said. "Do you want to see them now? When
I left, Copper was asking for you."

Kennon sighed. Leaving, he realized, wasn't going to be as easy as he
had thought.

"We'll have to keep them here for a couple of months," Brainard said.
"We must take exhaustive tests if we expect the court to reverse its
prior decision."

"I expected that," Kennon said. He shrugged, "It's probably best," he
said. "Now show me where Copper is."

"She's back in the same room. You don't need a guide."

Kennon didn't. In fact, he behaved quite admirably.



CHAPTER XX

Longliners, Kennon reflected, didn't make Beta a port of call, and the
Shortliner connections with other worlds were infrequent. Beta had done
a good job separating from the rest of the Brotherhood. Too good. The
spaceline schedules showed only one departure in the next month, a
Shortliner for Earth, and from Earth the road to Kardon was long and
tortuous, involving a series of short jumps from world to world and a
final medium-range hop from Halsey to Kardon. If everything went right
and he made every connection he would be in Kardon four months after he
left Beta. Kennon sighed as he left Travelers Aid. Morality was a heavy
load to carry.

He walked slowly down the road from the spaceport toward the
Co-operative where he had been staying. He had left Huntersville and
Copper a week ago, after he had seen his child. His child! The thought
of being a father was oddly dismaying. It distorted his sense of values.
But one thing was certain. He was returning to Kardon, and Copper was
not coming with him. She had a duty to their son--and he had a duty to
his contract with Alexander, to the Lani on Flora, and to Copper--and
none of these could be satisfied by further running. He had to return
and settle the account.

A tall man in a conservative yellow-and-black suit was waiting patiently
in front of his room. "My name is Richter," he said "--Art Richter. Are
you Dr. Jac Kennon?"

"I could deny it, but I won't," Kennon said.

"Thank you, Doctor. It was just a formality anyway. You see, I know
you by sight." He sighed. "One has to observe the formalities in this
business." He drew a long white envelope from his tunic and handed it to
Kennon. "Most of my subjects try to deny their identity," he said.

"It's a refreshing change to find an honest man." He bowed formally.
"I really thought this would be harder, considering the charges against
you." He bowed again and walked away.

"Now--what was that?" Kennon muttered as he opened the envelope. The
man Richter was undoubtedly a process server--but who had hired him?
He unfolded the sheet and scanned the charges--coercion, larceny,
livestock theft, and breach of contract. He shrugged. This was
Alexander's work. What was the man thinking of? It was insanity to
bring the Lani matter into open court. Hadn't Douglas told him what had
happened? Couldn't Alexander guess that he had fled with Copper for a
good reason--one that would stand up in court? Didn't he know about the
spacer? Or had Douglas turned on his cousin? The pup had so many hates
that it was possible. He was a natural troublemaker. Maybe Alexander
didn't know. Maybe he was working in the dark. Kennon scanned the sheet
quickly. Ah! here it was. Complaint--Mr. Alexander X. M. Alexander,
Skyline Tower 1024, Beta City!

Alexander! Here on Beta! Kennon opened the door of his room, went
straight to the phone beside the bed. He lifted the handset from its
cradle and dialed the operator. "Get me Huntersville THU 2-1408. I want
to speak to Dr. Brainard, Dr. Will Brainard. This is a priority
call--my name is Kennon. Dr. Jac Kennon D.V.M. I'm in the registry--47M
26429--yes--of course, and thank you." He waited a moment. "Hello--Dr.
Brainard?--Kennon here. I've just had some news. Alexander's on Beta!
Yes--he served me with a summons. Can you get a restraining order to
prevent him from leaving? You can? Good! Here's his address." Kennon
rattled off the location. "Yes--I'm taking the next airboat to Beta
City. This should simplify things considerably.--Of course it should. He
was a fool to have come here. Yes--I suppose you should tell Copper.
Oh! She is? I'm sorry to hear that, but there's no reason for her to
be angry. She should realize that I did this for her--not to make her
miserable. Hmm.--She--she has? You think she should come with
me?--Yes, I realize she can be a problem when she wants to be. All right
then--tell her to pack a toothbrush and a few spare diapers. And see if
you can get me a couple of tickets on the next flight to Beta City. I'll
be over in a couple of hours and pick her up." He cradled the phone and
dialed the operator again.

"I want the phone number of Skyline Tower 1024, Beta City, Mr.
Alexander. Yes. I'll wait. This number is HUV 2-1278 and my name
is Kennon, Dr. Jac Kennon 47M 26429. I called you before. No, I'm a
transient. I can refer you to Dr. James Brainard, Huntersville Medical
Center. Yes, I'll accept charges. Now will you give me that number? BCA
7-8941--thank you."

Kennon hung up, dialed the number, and waited.

"Hello," he said. "Mr. Alexander? This is Dr. Kennon.--Yes--I suppose
you do, but I've been trying to get back to Kardon for the past month.
You are? Well, that's your privilege, but I'd advise you to go easy
until I see you. Naturally--I'm coming as soon as I can get there. We'll
be seeing you tomorrow morning at the latest. We?--I'm bringing Copper,
of course. I just wanted you to know."

Kennon wiped his forehead. Alexander sounded angry and dangerous. Ten
years hadn't served to cool him off. What had happened on Kardon after
he had left? Kennon shook his head. There was something here he didn't
understand. The entrepreneur should have been covering his tracks, not
threatening jail and disaccreditation. It was obvious that a personal
visit was more necessary than he had thought.

Alexander was waiting. His eyebrows rose at the sight of Copper in
formal Betan dress--and lifted a trifle more at the sight of the baby.

"What is this, Kennon?" he asked.

"Trouble," Kennon said. He took off his hat. "I came here to settle
things before you took this case to court. You obviously do not
understand what has happened. I suppose Douglas has double-crossed you.
It would be characteristic of him. But before we go any further I think
we should clear the air and let each other know where we stand. I
don't want to make trouble if it's not necessary. You'll notice I'm not
wearing a thought screen, so you'll be able to check everything I say,
and know I'm telling the truth."

"It had better be good," Alexander said grimly. "I've been looking for
you for ten years. I intend to throw the book at you."

"I don't know whether my reason is good or not. Technically I'm guilty
of breach of contract and larceny of corporation property, but there are
extenuating circumstances."

Alexander chuckled mirthlessly. "There are a few other charges. And
quite probably I can think of more if you beat these. I'm going to make
an example of you, Kennon. I'm going to drag you down and stamp on you.
You're going to be a horrible example to all smart operators who think
they can break contracts. It's taken a million credits and ten years'
time to hunt you down, but it's going to be worth it."

"Copper's child is a boy," Kennon said mildly. "My son."

Alexander froze. "You can prove that?" he asked in a half-strangled
voice.

Kennon nodded. "You see the extenuating circumstance?" he asked.
"Suppression of human slavery!"

Alexander sat down. It was as though some unseen hand had pulled his
legs from under him. "You believe it," he said. "--No--you've proved
it! Why--why didn't you tell me? What sort of a man do you think I am?"

"I didn't know. I couldn't take the chance until Copper was protected.
You see, sir, I love her."

"That isn't hard to do with Lani," Alexander said. He sank back in his
chair, his face clouded, his expression troubled. It was obvious that
the realization shocked him.

Kennon felt an odd sympathy for the entrepreneur. It wasn't a nice
feeling, he suspected, to have the beliefs of a lifetime ripped apart
and sent to the disposal chute.

"So the Lani are a human variant," Alexander said dully.

"The proof is here," Kennon said, "and the supporting evidence is
conclusive."

"Which makes me--what? A murderer? A slaver? A tyrant?" Alexander
clutched his head with lean-fingered hands. "What am I?"

"An innocent victim of circumstances," Kennon said. "You didn't know.
None of us knew. And we still wouldn't know if the Lani weren't of
Betan extraction." He grimaced painfully. "I've done some soul-searching
myself, and it hasn't been a pleasant task."

"But it's nothing like mine," Alexander said in a low voice. "I
suspected they were human when I was younger, but I denied my suspicions
and accepted false facts instead of investigating."

"You would have found nothing."

"Unfortunately, that's not true. We discovered quite a bit from the
experimental station you left us when you disappeared ten years ago. But
we stopped when we found the age that was being indoctrinated with Lani
tabus. We could have gone farther, but I didn't think it was necessary."

"Didn't Douglas tell you?" Kennon asked curiously. "I told him when I
turned him loose."

"Douglas didn't tell anything except that you had somehow gotten a
spaceship. I assumed it was one of those that were involved in that
commercial raid a few decades ago, but I see it wasn't. No--I knew
nothing about this development. And Douglas, I guess, wanted to keep
it hidden. He gave your co-ordinates and ordered Mullins to launch a
missile. But he apparently forgot to turn on his IFF. At any rate
the missile lost you--but found Douglas. Douglas was still talking to
Alexandria when it struck."

"He might have informed you," Kennon said. "If he had more time."

"I doubt it. He ordered the missile first. He was trying to destroy you
before you could destroy Outworld Enterprises. His motives were selfish
as usual." Alexander looked at Kennon with a haggard eye. "I owe you an
apology," he said. "I've considered you responsible for Douglas's death
for ten years. I've searched for you on a hundred worlds. My agents in
every branch office have had standing orders to report any unusual
arrivals. I have hunted you personally. I wanted to break you--I wanted
to kill you."

"I couldn't help the delay," Kennon said. "The ship was old."

"I know. You've told me more than you think. I'm a telepath, you know."

"I've never forgotten it," Kennon said. "That was one of the principal
reasons I came here. I wanted to see how you'd react when you learned
the whole truth."

"And I suppose you gloat--no--you're not doing that. But you are right.
I could have checked it further. But I didn't. Outworld Enterprises is
far bigger than Flora--and I was busy. Galactic trade is a snake-pit.
And, after all, there was Douglas's death--and the Family with their
never-ending clamor for money and their threats when it didn't come
promptly. I like being an entrepreneur, but until I made Outworld
independent of Family control, I couldn't do anything except run the
business to their wishes. Actually the island was only a small part of
the corporation. I tried to run it as humanely as possible under the
circumstances." He shuddered. "I don't think I was ever needlessly
cruel."

"No," Kennon said, "you were indifferent."

"Which is just as bad," Alexander said.

"Well--what are you going to do about it?" Copper interjected. "You can
beat yourself until you're blue, but that won't accomplish anything."

"What are you going to do?" Alexander countered. "You have the upper
hand."

"Me?" Copper asked. "I have nothing. This is between you men." She
lapsed into silence.

Alexander turned back to Kennon. "You have undoubtedly made some
arrangements. You wouldn't come here--oh! I see. Congratulations.
Handling the evidence that way was a wise course. You have my
admiration. But then I should have known that I was not dealing with a
fool." He smiled wryly. "Subconsciously I think I did know--but--"

"That's one consolation," Kennon grinned. "To be thought a rascal is bad
enough, but to be considered a fool is intolerable."

"But your decision not to use the evidence unless you were forced
to--that's poor business."

"But good morals," Kennon said. "Neither the Brotherhood nor I could
settle this affair. It is a matter only you can handle. There is
no sense in killing Outworld or throwing Kardon into centuries of
litigation. The Lani never were numerous enough to lay claim to an
entire world. I'll admit the club is there, but I'll never use it unless
it's necessary."

"Why not?--it's sound business practice."

"I'm a professional--not a businessman. And besides, I haven't the moral
right to return evil for good. You have not been a bad boss."

"Thanks," Alexander said glumly. "I've always considered myself
civilized."

"I wouldn't go so far as to say that," Kennon said. "Honorable,
yes--civilized, no. But none of us are really civilized."

"So?"

"We haven't changed much, despite our development. Perhaps we've varied
a little physically--and we've learned to use new tools, but our minds
are still the minds of barbarians--blood brothers against the enemy, and
everything not of us is enemy. Savages--hiding under a thin veneer
of superficial culture. Savages with spaceships and the atom." Kennon
looked down at Copper. Apparently her thoughts were miles away in an
introspective world that was all her own. She had said her piece and
having done that was content to let the two men develop it. Kennon
looked at her with odd respect. Alexander eyed her with a mildly
startled expression on his lean face. And both men smiled, but the
smiles were not amused.

"Judging from Copper," Alexander said, "I don't think we'll have to
worry about how the Lani will turn out." He looked at Kennon with mild
sympathy. "You are going to have quite a time with her," he said.

"I suppose so. I'll probably never know whether I'm guided or whether
I'm doing the guiding. I've changed a lot of my opinions about Copper
since the day I met her."

Copper looked up and smiled at them. It was an odd smile, hinting at
secrets neither of them would ever know. Alexander chuckled. "It serves
you right." He crossed his legs and looked up at Kennon standing before
him. By some uncanny legerdemain he had gotten control of himself
and the situation at the same time. Being telepathic was an unfair
advantage, Kennon thought.

"You were equally unfair with your accusation," Alexander said.
"Sure--humanity makes mistakes, and like this one they're sometimes
brutal mistakes. But we are capable of atonement. Morally we have come a
long way from the brutality of the Interregnum. I shouldn't have to use
examples, but look at that"--he waved at the view wall at the panorama
of gleaming fairy towers and greenery that made Beta City one of the
most beautiful in the Brotherhood. "Don't tell me that five thousand
years of peace and development haven't produced civilization. That's a
concrete example out there."

"It isn't," Kennon said flatly. "Sure, it's pretty--clean--and
beautifully designed for art and utility--but it isn't civilization.
You're confusing technology with culture. You look at this and say,
'What a great civilization man has built,' when you really mean, 'What
a great technology mankind has developed.' There's all the difference in
the world. Technology is of the mind and hands. Civilization is of the
spirit--and spiritually we are still in the Dark Ages.

"We conquer, kill, loot, and enslave. We establish standards to keep
humanity a closed corporation, a special club in which men can live but
aliens can't. We've made the standards for admission so rigid that
we even enslave our own kind and call them animals. That's not
civilization--that's savagery!

"For nearly five hundred years your family has run a slave pen. Your
fortune is based upon it. And you have perpetuated this traffic in flesh
on the specious reasoning that a court judgment of half a millennium ago
is as good today as when it was handed down. Never once did anyone have
the moral courage to re-examine that old decision. Never once did any
human question the rightness of that decision. None of us are immune.
We all based our conduct upon an antiquated law and searched no further.
Everyone was happy with the status quo--or at least not so unhappy that
they wanted to change it. Even I would have been content had it not been
for Copper."

"Yet I do not feel that it was bad that I hired you," Alexander said.
"Even though you have shown me that I am a slaver, and made me see
faults I never knew I had." His face was drawn--harsh lines reached from
nose to lips, from eyes to chin. Suddenly he looked old. "I can accept
censure if censure is just. And this is just. No--I'm not sorry I hired
you even though the thought of what I have helped do to the Lani makes
me sick to my stomach."

"Well--" Kennon said. "What are you going to do about it?"

"I don't know," Alexander said. "At the first smell of trouble, the
Family will turn tail and run. You can break the company, and I won't
stand in your way. It's only just. You're the one who's carrying the
ball. Now run with it."

"That damned blind spot," Kennon said. "You realize, of course, that
you're not legally liable. It was a mistake. All you have to do is admit
the error and start from there. Naturally--no reasonable intelligence
would expect that you change the older Lani. They're too old for either
agerone or change. It would be both cruel and inhuman to turn them
loose. It's with the youngsters that you can work--those who are
physically and physiologically young enough to derive benefit from
agerone and education.

"As I remember, you bought a planet called Phoebe. Now why don't you--"

"Phase out! Of course! But that means that you can't press charges."

"Why should I? I'm not one of these starry-eyed reformers who expect
to change things overnight. It's the future of the Lani race that's
important, And Brainard agrees with me. A phase-out is the proper
solution. Change the education, let males be born--teach the young to
think instead of to obey. Give them Phoebe for a home--they never owned
all of Kardon anyway. And within a century or two we will have a new
group of the human race--and then we can tell the Brotherhood."

Kennon looked inquiringly at Copper. She smiled and nodded. "It would
cause less trouble that way," she said. "It would be more sure--and
there are never too many old ones."

Kennon shuddered, thinking of the euthanasia chambers on Otpen One.
"There will be more from now on," he said.

"Outworld can afford it. It'll bend us a little but we won't break--and
besides, the Lani will need our help for some time to come." Alexander
looked at Kennon. "Can we make an agreement that all parties will
respect?" he asked.

"I think so--providing there are no sleeper clauses in it," Kennon said.

"There won't be," Alexander said.

And there weren't.

* * *

It was a private ceremony. The Family, sulky and unwilling, faced with
a choice of drastically reduced income or outright confiscation and
preferring a portion of a loaf to none. Alexander--grim but oddly
peaceful of expression. Brainard--pink-cheeked and emotionless. Kennon
and Copper--happily conscious that it was at last finished. It was an
oddly assorted group of conspirators who planned to restore a segment of
humanity to the human race.

Kennon signed last, and as he did, Alexander looked at him with a sly
grin distorting the smooth pallor of his face.

"You forgot something," he said.

"What?" Kennon said--aware suddenly that something was wrong.

"What do you plan to do, now that this is over?"

"Join the Medical Center here and practice veterinary medicine."

"You wouldn't care to work for me--to help rebuild the wreckage you've
helped create? I'll need a manager on Kardon to phase out the island
while we phase in Phoebe."

"No, thank you. I've had enough of that."

"You just think you have," Alexander said gleefully. "That's what you
have forgotten. You've gotten your agreement--now you will satisfy me.
As I see it you have breached your contract by leaving Flora without
authorization."

"That is right," Kennon said. A small lump of lead began to grow rapidly
larger in his stomach. Brainard was grinning and Copper's eyes were
shining. "You've been jobbed!" his mind told him. He sighed. He knew
what was coming next.

"The punitive clause for breach of contract," Alexander went on
inexorably, "is very broad. Discretion is vested in the entrepreneur. I
can obtain judgment against you in any court on any planet."

"I know," Kennon said glumly.

"But I am going to be civilized," Alexander said. "I am going to be
merciful. I am going to extend your contract until phase-out has been
completed. You are going to have control of the entire Kardon phase of
the operation. It's poetic justice--you made the mess--now you can clean
it up."

"That's inhuman!"

"Humanity has nothing to do with it. It's justice," Alexander said. He
smiled at Copper's radiant face. The thought of going home was good to
her. "Good luck on your new job, Dr. Kennon," he said. "And welcome to
the brotherhood of the ulcer."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Lani People, by J. F. Bone

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LANI PEOPLE ***

***** This file should be named 2509.txt or 2509.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/5/0/2509/

Produced by An Anonymous Volunteer

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
