The Project Gutenberg EBook of Impact, by Irving E. Cox

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Impact

Author: Irving E. Cox

Release Date: May 23, 2008 [EBook #25567]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IMPACT ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Andrew Wainwright and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                                IMPACT

                        By IRVING E. COX, Jr.

                        Illustrated by GRAYAM

              _They were languorous, anarchic, shameless
                in their pleasures ... were they lower
                       than man ... or higher?_


Over the cabin 'phone, Ann's voice was crisp with anger. "Mr. Lord, I must
see you at once."

"Of course, Ann." Lord tried not to sound uncordial. It was all part of a
trade agent's job, to listen to the recommendations and complaints of the
teacher. But an interview with Ann Howard was always so arduous, so stiff
with unrelieved righteousness. "I should be free until--"

"Can you come down to the schoolroom, Mr. Lord?"

"If it's necessary. But I told you yesterday, there's nothing we can do to
make them take the lessons."

"I understand your point of view, Mr. Lord." Her words were barely civil,
brittle shafts of ice. "However, this concerns Don; he's gone."

"Gone? Where?"

"Jumped ship."

"Are you sure, Ann? How long ago?"

"I rather imagined you'd be interested," she answered with smug
satisfaction. "Naturally you'll want to see his note. I'll be waiting for
you."

The 'phone clicked decisively as she broke the connection. Impotent fury
lashed Lord's mind--anger at Don Howard, because the engineer was one of
his key men; and, childishly, anger at Don's sister because she was the one
who had broken the news. If it had come from almost anyone else it would,
somehow, have seemed less disastrous. Don's was the fourth desertion in
less than a week, and the loss of trained personnel was becoming serious
aboard the _Ceres_. But what did Ann Howard expect Lord to do about it?
This was a trading ship; he had no military authority over his crew.

As Lord stood up, his desk chair collapsed with a quiet hiss against the
cabin wall, and, on greased tubes, the desk dropped out of sight beneath
the bunk bed, giving Lord the luxury of an uncluttered floor space eight
feet square. He had the only private quarters on the ship--the usual
distinction reserved for a trade agent in command.

From a narrow wardrobe, curved to fit the projectile walls of the ship,
Lord took a lightweight jacket, marked with the tooled shoulder insignia of
command. He smiled a little as he put it on. He was Martin Lord, trade
agent and heir to the fabulous industrial-trading empire of Hamilton Lord,
Inc.; yet he was afraid to face Ann Howard without the visible trappings of
authority.

       *       *       *       *       *

He descended the spiral stairway to the midship airlock, a lead-walled
chamber directly above the long power tubes of the _Ceres_. The lock door
hung open, making an improvised landing porch fifty feet above the charred
ground. Lord paused for a moment at the head of the runged landing ladder.
Below him, in the clearing where the ship had come down, he saw the rows of
plastic prefabs which his crew had thrown up--laboratories, sleeping
quarters, a kitchen, and Ann Howard's schoolroom.

Beyond the clearing was the edge of the magnificent forest which covered so
much of this planet. Far away, in the foothills of a distant mountain
range, Lord saw the houses of a village, gleaming in the scarlet blaze of
the setting sun. A world at peace, uncrowded, unscarred by the feverish
excavation and building of man. A world at the zenith of its native
culture, about to be jerked awake by the rude din of civilization. Lord
felt a twinge of the same guilt that had tormented his mind since the
_Ceres_ had first landed, and with an effort he drove it from his mind.

He descended the ladder and crossed the clearing, still blackened from the
landing blast; he pushed open the sliding door of the schoolroom. It was
large and pleasantly yellow-walled, crowded with projectors, view-booths,
stereo-miniatures, and picture books--all the visual aids which Ann Howard
would have used to teach the natives the cultural philosophy of the
Galactic Federation. But the rows of seats were empty, and the gleaming
machines still stood in their cases. For no one had come to Ann's school,
in spite of her extravagant offers of trade goods.

Ann sat waiting, ramrod straight, in front of a green-tinged projectoscope.
She made no compromise with the heat, which had driven the men to strip
to their fatigue shorts. Ann wore the full, formal uniform. A less
strong-willed woman might have appeared wilted after a day's work. Ann's
face was expressionless, a block of cold ivory. Only a faint mist of
perspiration on her upper lip betrayed her acute discomfort.

"You came promptly, Mr. Lord." There was a faint gleam of triumph in her
eyes. "That was good of you."

She unfolded her brother's note and gave it to Lord. It was a clear,
straight-forward statement of fact. Don Howard said he was deserting the
mission, relinquishing his Federation citizenship. "I'm staying on this
world; these people have something priceless, Ann. All my life I've been
looking for it, dreaming of it. You wouldn't understand how I feel, but
nothing else--nothing else--matters, Ann. Go home. Leave these people
alone. Don't try to make them over."

The last lines rang in sympathy with Lord's own feelings, and he knew that
was absurd. Changes would have to be made when the trade city was built.
That was Lord's business. Expansion and progress: the lifeblood of the
Federation.

"What do you want me to do?" he demanded.

"Go after Don and bring him back."

"And if he refuses--"

"I won't leave him here."

"I have no authority to force him against his will, Ann."

"I'm sure you can get help from this--" her lip curled "--this native girl
of yours. What's her name?"

"Niaga."

"Oh, yes; Niaga. Quaint, isn't it?" She smiled flatly.

He felt an almost irresistible urge to smash his fist into her jaw.
Straight-laced, hopelessly blind to every standard but her own--what right
did Ann have to pass judgment on Niaga? It was a rhetorical question.
Ann Howard represented the Federation no less than Lord did himself. By
law, the teachers rode every trading ship; in the final analysis, their
certification could make or break any new planetary franchise.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Niaga has been very helpful, Ann; cooperative and--"

"Oh, I'm sure she has, Mr. Lord."

"I could threaten to cut off Don's bonus pay, I suppose, but it wouldn't do
much good; money has no meaning to these people and, if Don intends to stay
here, it won't mean much to him, either."

"How you do it, Mr. Lord, is not my concern. But if Don doesn't go home
with us--" She favored him with another icy smile. "I'm afraid I'll have to
make an adverse report when you apply for the franchise."

"You can't, Ann!" Lord was more surprised than angry. "Only in the case of
a primitive and belligerent culture--"

"I've seen no evidence of technology here." She paused. "And not the
slightest indication that these people have any conception of moral
values."

"Not by our standards, no; but we've never abandoned a planet for that
reason alone."

"I know what you're thinking, Mr. Lord. Men like you--the traders and
the businessmen and the builders--you've never understood a teacher's
responsibility. You make the big noise in the Federation; but we hold it
together for you. I'm not particularly disturbed by the superficials I've
seen here. The indecent dress of these people, their indolent villages,
their congenital irresponsibility--all that disgusts me, but it has not
affected my analysis. There's something else here--something far more
terrible and more dangerous for us. I can't put it in words. It's horrible
and it's deadly; it's the reason why our men have deserted. They've had
attractive women on other worlds--in the trade cities, anything money
could buy--but they never jumped ship before."

"A certain percentage always will, Ann." Lord hoped he sounded reassuring,
but he felt anything but reassured himself. Not because of what she said.
These naive, altogether delightful people were harmless. But could the
charming simplicity of their lives survive the impact of civilization? It
was this world that was in danger, not by any stretch of the imagination
the Federation.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the thought occurred to him, he shrank from it with a kind of inner
terror. It was heresy. The Federation represented the closest approximation
of perfection mortal man would ever know: a brotherhood of countless
species, a union of a thousand planets, created by the ingenuity and the
energy of man. The Pax Humana; how could it be a threat to any people
anywhere?

"That would be my recommendation." Suddenly Ann's self-assurance collapsed.
She reached for his hand; her fingers were cold and trembling. "But, if you
bring Don back, I--I won't report against a franchise."

"You're offering to make a deal? You know the penalty--"

"Collusion between a trade agent and the teacher assigned to his ship--yes,
I know the law, Mr. Lord."

"You're willing to violate it for Don? Why? Your brother's a big boy now;
he's old enough to look after himself."

Ann Howard turned away from him and her voice dropped to a whisper. "He
isn't my brother, Mr. Lord. We had to sign on that way because your company
prohibits a man and wife sailing in the same crew."

In that moment she stripped her soul bare to him. Poor, plain,
conscientious Ann Howard! Fighting to hold her man; fighting the unknown
odds of an alien world, the stealthy seduction of an amoral people. Lord
understood Ann, then, for the first time; he saw the shadow of madness
that crept across her mind; and he pitied her.

"I'll do what I can," he promised.

As he left the schoolroom she collapsed in a straight-backed chair--thin
and unattractive, like Ann herself--and her shoulders shook with silent,
bitter grief.

       *       *       *       *       *

Martin Lord took the familiar path to Niaga's village. The setting sun
still spread its dying fire across the evening sky, but he walked slowly
through the deep, quiet shadows of the forest. He came to the stream where
he had met Niaga; he paused to dip his sweat-smeared face into the cool
water cascading over a five foot fall.

A pleasant flood of memory crowded his mind. When he had first met Niaga,
almost a week before, she had been lying on the sandy bank of the stream,
idly plaiting a garland of red and blue flowers. Niaga! A copper-skinned
goddess, stark naked and unashamed in the bright spot light of sun filtered
through the trees. Languorous, laughing lips; long, black hair loosely
caught in a net of filmy material that hung across her shoulder.

The feeling of guilt and shame had stabbed at Lord's mind. He had come,
unasked, into an Eden. He didn't belong here. His presence meant pillage, a
rifling of a sacred dream. The landing had been a mistake.

Oddly enough, the _Ceres_ had landed here entirely by chance, the result of
a boyish fling at adventure.

Martin Lord was making a routine tour of representative trade cities before
assuming his vice-presidency in the central office of Hamilton Lord, Inc.
It had been a family custom for centuries, ever since the first domed ports
had been built on Mars and Venus.

Lord was twenty-six and, like all the family, tall, slim, yellow-haired.
As the Lords had for generations, Martin had attended the Chicago
University of Commerce for four years, and the Princeton Graduate School
in Interstellar Engineering four more--essential preparations for the
successful Federation trader. In Chicago Martin had absorbed the basic
philosophy of the Federation: the union of planets and diverse peoples,
created by trade, was an economy eternally prosperous and eternally
growing, because the number of undiscovered and unexploited planets
was infinite. The steady expansion of the trade cities kept demand
always one jump ahead of supply; every merchant was assured that this
year's profits would always be larger than last. It was the financial
millennium, from which depression and recession had been forever
eliminated. At Princeton Lord had learned the practical physics
necessary for building, servicing and piloting the standard interstellar
merchant ships.

Martin Lord's tour of the trade cities completed his education. It was his
first actual contact with reality. The economy of progress, which had
seemed so clear-cut in the Chicago lecture halls, was translated into a
brawling, vice-ridden, frontier city. In the older trade cities, the
culture of man had come to dominate the occupied worlds. No trace of what
alien peoples had been or had believed survived, except as museum oddities.

This, Lord admitted to himself, was conquest, by whatever innocuous name it
passed. But was it for good or evil? In the first shock of reality, Martin
Lord had doubted himself and the destiny of the Federation. But only for a
moment. What he saw was good--he had been taught to believe that--because
the Federation was perfection.

But the doubt, like a cancer, fed and grew in the darkness of Lord's soul.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the home trip a mechanical defect of the calibration of the time-power
carried the _Ceres_ off its course, light years beyond the segment of the
Galaxy occupied by the Federation.

"We've burned out a relay," Don Howard reported.

"Have we replacements?" Lord asked.

"It's no problem to fix. But repairs would be easier if we could set the
ship down somewhere."

Lord glanced at the unknown sun and three satellite planets which were
plotted electronically on his cabin scanning screen. His pulse leaped with
sudden excitement. This was his first--and last--chance for adventure, the
only interstellar flight he would command in his lifetime. When he returned
to earth, he would be chained for the rest of his days to a desk job,
submerged in a sea of statistical tables and financial statements.

"Run an atmosphere analysis on those three worlds, Mr. Howard," he said
softly.

Driven by its auxiliary nuclear power unit, the ship moved closer to the
new solar system. In half an hour Don Howard brought Lord the lab report.
Two of the planets were enveloped in methane, but the third had an
earth-normal atmosphere. Lord gave the order for a landing, his voice
pulsing with poorly concealed, boyish pleasure.

The _Ceres_ settled on a hilltop, its cushioning rockets burning an
improvised landing area in the lush foliage. As the airlock swung open,
Lord saw half a dozen golden-skinned savages standing on the edge of the
clearing. As nearly as he could judge, they were men; but that was not
too surprising, because a number of planets in the Federation had evolved
sentient species which resembled man. The savages were unarmed and nearly
naked--tall, powerfully built men; they seemed neither awed nor frightened
by the ship.

Over the circle of scorched earth Lord heard the sound of their voices. For
a fleeting second the words seemed to make sense--a clear, unmistakable
welcome to the new world.

But communication was inconceivable. This planet was far beyond the fringe
of the Federation. Lord was letting his imagination run away with him.

He flung out his arms in a universally accepted gesture of open-handed
friendship. At once the talk of the natives ceased. They stood waiting
silently on the burned ground while the men unwound the landing ladder.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lord made the initial contact himself. The techniques which he had learned
in the University of Commerce proved enormously successful. Within ten
minutes rapport was established; in twenty the natives had agreed to submit
to the linguistic machines. Lord had read accounts of other trailblazing
commercial expeditions; and he knew he was establishing a record for speed
of negotiation.

The savages were quite unfrightened as the electrodes were fastened to
their skulls, entirely undisturbed by the whir of the machine. In less than
an hour they were able to use the common language of the Federation.
Another record; most species needed a week's indoctrination.

Every new development suggested that these half-naked primitives--with
no machine civilization, no cities, no form of space flight--had an
intellectual potential superior to man's. The first question asked
by one of the broad-shouldered savages underscored that conclusion.

"Have you come to our world as colonists?"

No mumbo-jumbo of superstition, no awe of strangers who had suddenly
descended upon them from the sky. Lord answered, "We landed in order
to repair our ship, but I hope we can make a trade treaty with your
government."

For a moment the six men consulted among themselves with a silent exchange
of glances. Then one of them smiled and said, "You must visit our villages
and explain the idea of trade to our people."

"Of course," Lord agreed. "If you could serve as interpreters--"

"Our people can learn your language as rapidly as we have, if we can borrow
your language machine for a time."

Lord frowned. "It's a rather complex device, and I'm not sure--you see, if
something went wrong, you might do a great deal of harm."

"We would use it just as you did; we saw everything you turned to make it
run." One of the golden-skinned primitives made a demonstration, turning
the console of dials with the ease and familiarity of a semantic expert.
Again Lord was impressed by their intelligence--and vaguely frightened.

"You could call this the first trade exchange between your world and ours,"
another savage added. "Give us the machine; we'll send you fresh food from
the village."

The argument was logical and eventually the natives had their way. Perhaps
it was Ann Howard's intervention that decided the point. She vehemently
disapproved; a gift of techniques should be withheld until she had
examined their cultural traditions. But Martin Lord was a trade agent, and
he had no intention of allowing his mission to be wrecked by the ephemeral
doubts of a teacher. Here at the onset was the time to make it clear that
he was in command. He gave the natives the machine.

As the six men trudged across the burned earth carrying the heavy apparatus
easily on their shoulders, Lord wondered if either he or Ann Howard had
much to do with the negotiations. He had an unpleasant feeling that, from
the very beginning, the natives had been in complete control of the
situation.

       *       *       *       *       *

Less than an hour after the six men had departed, a band of natives emerged
from the forest bearing gifts of food--straw baskets heaped with fruit,
fresh meat wrapped in grass mats, hampers of bread, enormous pottery jars
filled with a sweet, cold, milky liquid. Something very close to the
miraculous had occurred. Every native had learned to use the Federation
language.

A kind of fiesta began in the clearing beside the _Ceres_. The natives
built fires to cook the food. The women, scantily dressed if they were
clothed at all, danced sensuously in the bright sunlight to a peculiarly
exotic, minor-keyed music played on reed and percussion instruments.
Laughing gaily, they enticed members of Lord's crew to join them.

The milky drink proved mildly intoxicating--yet different from the
stimulants used in the Federation. Lord drank a long draught from a mug
brought him by one of the women. The effect was immediate. He felt no
dulling of his reason, however; no loss of muscular control, but instead
a stealthy relaxation of mental strain joined with a satisfying sense of
physical well-being. A subtle shifting in prospective, in accepted values.

The savage feast, which grew steadily more boisterous, Lord would have
called an orgy under other circumstances. The word did occur to him, but it
seemed fantastically inapplicable. Normally the behavior of his men would
have demanded the severest kind of disciplinary action. But here the old
code of rules simply didn't apply and he didn't interfere with their
enjoyment.

The afternoon sun blazed in the western sky; heat in shimmering waves
hung over the clearing. Lord went into the ship and stripped off his
uniform; somehow the glittering insignia, the ornamental braid, the stiff
collar--designed to be impressive symbols of authority--seemed garish and
out of place. Lord put on the shorts which he wore when he exercised in
the capsule gym aboard ship.

Outside again, he found that most of the men had done the same thing. The
sun felt warm on his skin; the air was comfortably balmy, entirely free of
the swarms of flies and other insects which made other newly contacted
frontier worlds so rugged.

As he stood in the shelter of the landing ladder and sipped a second mug
of the white liquor, Lord became slowly aware of something else. Divested
of their distinguishing uniforms, he and his crew seemed puny and ill-fed
beside the natives. If physique were any index to the sophistication of a
culture--but that was a ridiculous generalization!

He saw Ann Howard coming toward him through the crowd--stern-faced,
hard-jawed, stiffly dignified in her uniform. The other women among the
crew had put on their lightest dress, but not Ann. Lord was in no frame of
mind, just then, to endure an interview with her. He knew precisely what
she would say; Ann was a kind of walking encyclopedia of the conventions.

Lord slid out of sight in the shadow of the ship, but Ann had seen him. He
turned blindly into the forest, running along the path toward the village.

In a fern-banked glen beside the miniature waterfall he had met Niaga.

       *       *       *       *       *

No woman he had ever known seemed so breathtakingly beautiful. Her skin had
been caressed by a lifetime's freedom in the sun; her long, dark hair had
the sheen of polished ebony; and in the firm, healthy curves of her body
he saw the sensuous grace of a Venus or an Aphrodite.

[Illustration: In a fern-banked glen beside a miniature waterfall, Martin
Lord first saw Niaga.]

She stood up slowly and faced him, smiling; a bright shaft of sunlight fell
on the liquid bow of her lips. "I am Niaga," she said. "You must be one of
the men who came on the ship."

"Martin Lord," he answered huskily. "I'm the trade agent in command."

"I am honored." Impulsively she took the garland of flowers which she had
been making and put it around his neck. When she came close, the subtle
perfume of her hair was unmistakable--like the smell of pine needles on a
mountain trail; new grass during a spring rain; or the crisp, winter air
after a fall of snow. Perfume sharply symbolic of freedom, heady and
intoxicating, numbing his mind with the ghosts of half-remembered dreams.

"I was coming to your ship with the others," she said, "but I stopped here
to swim, as I often do. I'm afraid I stayed too long, day-dreaming on the
bank; time means so little to us." Shyly she put her hand in his. "But,
perhaps, no harm is done, since you are still alone. If you have taken no
one else, will I do?"

"I--I don't understand."

"You are strangers; we want you to feel welcome."

"Niaga, people don't--that is--" He floundered badly. Intellectually he
knew he could not apply the code of his culture to hers; emotionally it
was a difficult concept to accept. If his standards were invalid, his
definitions might be, too. Perhaps this society was no more primitive
than--No! A mature people would always develop more or less the same
mechanical techniques, and these people had nothing remotely like a
machine.

"You sent us a gift," she said. "It is only proper for us to return the
kindness."

"You have made a rather miraculous use of the language machine in a
remarkably short period of time."

"We applied it to everyone in the village. We knew it would help your
people feel at ease, if we could talk together in a common tongue."

"You go to great pains to welcome a shipload of strangers."

"Naturally. Consideration for others is the first law of humanity." After a
pause, she added very slowly, with her eyes fixed on his, "Mr. Lord, do you
plan to make a colony here?"

"Eventually. After we repair the ship, I hope to negotiate a trade treaty
with your government."

"But you don't intend to stay here yourself?"

"I couldn't."

"Have we failed in our welcome? Is there something more--"

"No, Niaga, nothing like that. I find your world very--very beautiful."
The word very inadequately expressed what he really felt. "But I'm not
free to make the choice."

She drew in her breath sharply. "Your people, then, hold you enslaved?"

He laughed--uneasily. "I'm going home to manage Hamilton Lord; it's
the largest trading company in the Federation. We have exclusive
franchises to develop almost five hundred planets. It's my duty,
Niaga; my responsibility; I can't shirk it."

"Why not--if you wanted to?"

"Because I'm Martin Lord; because I've been trained--No, it's something
I can't explain. You'll just have to take my word for it. Now tell me:
how should I go about negotiating a treaty with your people?"

"You spoke of the government, Martin Lord; I suppose you used the word
in a symbolic sense?"

"Your chieftain; your tribal leader--whatever name you have for them."

       *       *       *       *       *

Her big, dark eyes widened in surprise. "Then you meant actual men? It's
a rather unusual use of the word, isn't it? For us, government is a
synonym for law."

"Of course, but you must have leaders to interpret it and enforce it."

"Enforce a law?" This seemed to amuse her. "How? A law is a statement of
a truth in human relationship; it doesn't have to be enforced. What sane
person would violate a truth? What would you do, Martin Lord, if I told
you we had no government, in your sense of the word?"

"You can't be that primitive, Niaga!"

"Would it be so terribly wrong?"

"That's anarchy. There'd be no question, then, of granting us a trade
franchise; we'd have to set up a trusteeship and let the teachers run your
planet until you had learned the basic processes of social organization."

Niaga turned away from him, her hands twisted together. She said, in a soft
whisper that was flat and emotionless, "We have a council of elders, Martin
Lord. You can make your treaty with them." Then, imperceptibly, her voice
brightened. "It will take a week or more to bring the council together.
And that is all to the good; it will give your people time to visit in
our villages and to get better acquainted with us."

       *       *       *       *       *

Niaga left him, then; she said she would go to the village and send out
the summons for the council. By a roundabout path, Lord returned to the
clearing around the _Ceres_. The forest fascinated him. It was obviously
cultivated like a park, and he was puzzled that a primitive society should
practice such full scale conservation. Normally savages took nature for
granted or warred against it.

He came upon a brown gash torn in a hillside above the stream, a place
where natives were apparently working to build up the bank against
erosion. In contrast to the beauty that surrounded it, the bare earth was
indescribably ugly, like a livid scar in a woman's face. In his mind Lord
saw this scar multiplied a thousand times--no, a million times--when the
machines of the galaxy came to rip out resources for the trade cities.
He envisioned the trade cities that would rise against the horizon, the
clutter of suburban subdivisions choking out the forests; he saw the pall
of industrial smoke that would soil the clean air, the great machines
clattering over asphalt streets.

For the first time he stated the problem honestly, to himself: this world
must be saved exactly as it was. But how? How could Lord continue to
represent Hamilton Lord, Inc., as a reputable trade agent, and at the
same time save Niaga's people from the impact of civilization?

It was sunset when he returned to the _Ceres_. On the clearing the
festivities were still going on, but at a slower pace. Ann Howard was
waiting for Lord at the door of his cabin. She registered her official
disapproval of the revelry, which Lord had expected, and then she added,

"We can't make a treaty with them; these people have no government with
the authority to deal with us."

"You're wrong, Ann; there's a council of elders--"

"I beg to differ, Mr. Lord." Her lips made a flat, grim line against her
teeth. "This afternoon I made a point of talking to every native in the
clearing. Their idea of government is something they call the law of
humanity. Whether it is written down or not, I have no way of knowing;
but certainly they have no such thing as a central authority. This
rather indicates a teacher trusteeship for the planet, I believe."

"You've made a mistake, Ann; I'll have to check for myself."

Lord and Ann Howard moved together through the clearing and he began to
talk to the natives. In each case he elicited the same information that
Ann had given him. The mention of a governing council seemed to amuse the
savages. Lord and Ann were still conducting their puzzling inquest when
Niaga returned from the village. She said that the council had been
called and would meet within a week.

"There seems to be some difference of opinion," Ann told her coldly,
"between you and your people."

"Yes," Lord added uncertainly, "I've been asking about the council and--"

"But you didn't phrase your question clearly," Niaga put in smoothly.
"We're not quite used to using your words yet with your definitions."
To make her point, she called the same natives whom Ann and Lord had
questioned, and this time, without exception, they reversed their
testimony. Lord was willing to believe the language had caused the
difficulty. Niaga's people were entirely incapable of deception; what
reason would they have had?

       *       *       *       *       *

From that hour, the clearing was never altogether free of native guests.
They deluged Lord's crew with kindness and entertainment. Lord never left
the ship, day or night, without having Niaga slip up beside him and put
her arm through his. Because Ann Howard had made her objections so clear,
the native women, in an effort to please the teacher, had taken to wearing
more clothing than they were accustomed to. But they rejected the sack-like
plastics which Ann dispensed in the schoolroom and put on the mist-like,
pastel-colored netting which they used normally to decorate their homes.
If anything, the addition of clothing made the women more attractive
than ever.

The scientists among Lord's men analyzed the planetary resources and found
the planet unbelievably rich in metals; the botanists determined that the
seeds for the exotic fruits and flowers were exportable. All told, Niaga's
world could develop into the richest franchise in the Federation.

Niaga took Lord to visit the villages which were close to the landing
site. Each town was exactly like its neighbors, a tiny cluster of small,
yellow-walled, flat-roofed houses nestled among the tall trees close to
a cleared farmland which was worked co-operatively by everyone in the
village. No single town was large, yet judging from the number that he
saw, Lord estimated the planetary population in the billions.

Continuously Niaga tried to persuade him to stay and build a colony in
the new world. Lord knew that the other natives were being as persuasive
with the rest of the crew. And the temptation was very real: to trade the
energetic, competitive, exhausting routine that he knew for the quiet
peace and relaxation here.

As the days passed the rigid scheduling of exploratory activities, always
practiced by a trade mission, began to break down. The charming savages of
this new world put no monetary value on time, and something of their spirit
began to infect Lord's crew. They stopped bucking for overtime; most of
them applied for accumulated sick leave--so they could walk in the forest
with the native women, or swim in the forest pools. Even Lord found time
to relax.

One afternoon, after a swim with Niaga, they lay in the warm sun on the
grassy bank of a stream. Niaga picked a blue, delicately scented water
lily, and gently worked it into his hair. Slowly she bent her face close
until her lips brushed his cheek.

"Must you really go away when the treaty is made?"

"I'm a Lord, Niaga."

"Does that matter? If you like it here--"

"Niaga, I wish--I wish--" He shrugged his shoulders helplessly.

"Why is it so important for you to build your trade cities?"

As he sought for words to answer her question, the spell of her presence
was broken. He saw her for what she was: an extremely beautiful woman,
sensuously very lovely, yet nonetheless a primitive--a forlorn child
without any conception of the meaning of civilization. "We keep our union
of planets economically sound," he explained patiently, "and at peace by
constantly expanding--"

"I have visited the schoolroom your teacher has put up beside the ship. I
have seen her models of the many machines your people know how to build.
But why do you do it, Martin Lord?"

"The machines make our lives easier and more comfortable; they--"

"More comfortable than this?" She gestured toward the stream and the
cultivated forest.

"Your world moves at the pace of a walk, Niaga; with our machines, you
could rise above your trees, reach your destination in minutes--when now
it takes you days."

"And miss all the beauty on the way. What point is there in saving
time, and losing so much that really matters? Do your machines give you
anything--you as a person, Martin Lord--that you couldn't have here
without them?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The question was unanswerable. It symbolized the enormous gulf that lay
between Niaga and himself. More than that, Lord saw clearly that the
trade cities would destroy her world utterly. Neither Niaga nor her way
of life could survive the impact of civilization. And the exotic charm,
the friendly innocence was worth saving. Somehow Lord had to find a way
to do it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lord was by no means surprised when the first three men jumped ship and
went to live in one of the quiet villages. Subconsciously he envied them;
subconsciously he wished he had the courage to make the same decision.
Although Ann Howard demanded it, Lord couldn't seriously consider taking
measures to stop further desertions.

When Don Howard jumped ship, he brought the issue to a head. Ann maneuvered
Lord so that he would have to take a stand. What and how, he didn't know.

It was the first time since the landing that Niaga had not been waiting
outside the ship for Lord. At his request she had gone to the village
to find what progress had been made in calling the council of elders.
Lord knew where to find her, but after his talk with Ann he walked slowly
along the forest path. He stopped to dip his face into the stream where
he had first met Niaga. Anything to put off the showdown. Lord was
trying desperately to understand and evaluate his own motivation.

He accepted the fact that he had not stopped the desertions because, if
enough men jumped ship, the _Ceres_ would be unable to take off again. Lord
could then have embraced Niaga's temptation without having to make the
decision for himself. But that was a coward's way out and no solution.
There would always be people like Ann Howard who would not accept the
situation. They would eventually make radio communication with the
Federation, and the location of Niaga's world would no longer be a secret.

Fundamentally that was the only thing that counted: to preserve this world
from the impact of civilization.

Then suddenly, as he listened to the music of the stream, Lord saw how that
could be done. Ann Howard had offered him a deal; she would keep her word.
Everything hinged on that.

Don Howard had to be brought back--if persuasion failed, then by force.

Martin Lord ran back to the clearing. From a supply shed he took a pair of
deadly atomic pistols. Their invisible, pin-point knife of exploding energy
could slice through eighteen feet of steel, transform a mountain into a
cloud of radioactive dust.

He ran through the forest to the village. As usual, the children were
playing games on the grass, while the adults lounged in front of their
dwellings or enjoyed community singing and dancing to the pulsing rhythm of
their music. The sound of gaiety suddenly died as Lord walked between the
rows of houses.

Strange, he thought; they seemed to guess what was in his mind. Niaga ran
from the quiet crowd and took his hand.

"No, Martin Lord; you must not interfere!"

"Where's Howard?"

"He is a free man; he has a right to choose--"

"I'm going to take him back." He drew one of his guns. She looked at him
steadily, without fear, and she said,

"We made you welcome; we have given you our friendship, and now you--"

He pushed her aside brutally because her gentleness, her lack of anger,
tightened the constriction of his own sense of guilt. Lord fired his weapon
at the trunk of a tree. The wood flamed red for a moment and the sound of
the explosion rocked the air, powdering the grass with black ash.

"This is the kind of power controlled by men," he said. His voice was
harsh, shrill with shame and disgust for the role he had to play. "I shall
use this weapon to destroy your homes--each of them, one by one--unless you
surrender Don Howard to me."

As he turned the pistol slowly toward the closest yellow wall, Niaga
whispered, "Violence is a violation of the law of humanity. We offered Don
Howard sanctuary and peace--as we offer it to all of you. Stay with us,
Martin Lord; make your home here."

He clenched his jaw. "I want Don and I want him now!"

"But why must you go back? Your world is powerful; your world is enormous
with cities and machines. But what does it hold for you as a man, Martin
Lord? Here we give you the dreams of your own soul, peace and beauty,
laughter and dignity."

"Surrender, Don!" Although he was vaguely aware of it, he had no time to
consider consciously the strangely sophisticated wording of her argument.
When she continued to talk in the same gentle voice, the temptation
caressed his mind like a narcotic; against his will, the tension began to
wash from his muscles. Driven by a kind of madness to escape the sound of
her voice, he pulled the trigger. The yellow wall exploded. Concussion
throbbed in his ears, deafening him--but he still heard her whisper in
the depths of his soul, like the music of a forest stream.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then, at the end of the village street, he saw Don Howard coming out of
one of the houses with his hands held high.

"You win, Lord; leave them alone."

It was victory, but Lord felt no triumph--only a crushing bitterness. He
motioned Howard to take the path back to the ship. To Niaga he said,

"If your council of elders ever gets around to meeting, you might tell
them that, as far as I'm concerned, you've already signed the trade
treaty with me. We're leaving in the morning to register the franchise."

"You'd break your own law? You said the negotiations had to be--"

"Our men will come shortly to build the first trade city. I advise you not
to resist them; they'll be armed with guns more powerful than mine."

She reached for his hand, but Lord turned away from her quickly so that
she could not again open the raw wound of shame in his soul. He followed
Don Howard into the forest.

"You won't get away with it, Lord," Howard said grimly. "No trade agent
can impose a treaty--"

"Would a trusteeship be any better?"

"Lord, no!"

"There are only two alternatives, and a Hamilton Lord trade city is by
far the better."

"Yes--for Hamilton Lord."

"No, for these people. Don't forget, I'll be running Hamilton Lord.
The exclusive franchise will keep out the other traders, and I can see
to it that our trade city does no harm. We've a thousand planets in the
Federation; who's going to know if one of the cities doesn't really
function?"

"I get it. But why the hell did you have to bring me back?"

"To make a deal with--with your wife."

After a long pause, Don Howard said wearily, "If Hamilton Lord can
sacrifice the richest franchise in the galaxy, I suppose I can do my bit,
too."

At dawn the _Ceres_ departed. Lord drove his men to work throughout the
night stowing the prefabs and the trade goods aboard the ship. Just before
the power tubes stabbed the launching fire into the earth, a delegation of
villagers came into the clearing. Niaga led them and she spoke to Lord at
the foot of the landing ladder.

"We still want you to stay among us, Martin Lord; we have come again to
offer--"

"It is impossible!"

She put her arms around his neck and drew his lips against hers. The
temptation washed over his mind, shattering his resolution and warping
his reason. This was what he wanted: the golden dream of every man. But
for Lord only one idea held fast. Niaga's primitive, naive world had to be
preserved exactly as it was. If he gave in to the dream, he would destroy
it. Only in the central office of Hamilton Lord could he do anything to
save what he had found here. He wrenched himself free of her arms.

"It's no use, Niaga."

She knew that she had lost, and she moved away from him. One of the other
golden-skinned savages pushed a small, carved box into his hands.

"A parting gift," Niaga said. "Open it when you are aboard your ship,
Martin Lord."

Long after the _Ceres_ had blasted off, he sat alone in his cabin looking
at the box--small, delicately carved from a strange material, like a soft
plastic. It seemed somehow alive, throbbing with the memory of the dream
he had left behind.

With a sigh he opened the box. A billow of white dust came from it. The
box fell apart and the pieces, like disintegrating gelatine, began to melt
away. A printed card, made of the same unstable material, lay in Lord's
hand.

"You have three minutes, Martin Lord," he read. "The drug is painless, but
before it wipes memory from the minds of you and your crew, I want you to
understand why we felt it necessary to do this to you.

"When you first landed, we realized that you came from a relatively
immature culture because you made no response to our telepathy of welcome.
We did our best after that to simplify your adjustment to our way of life,
because we knew you would have to stay among us. Of course, we never really
learned your language; we simply gave you the illusion that we had. Nor
is there any such thing as a council of elders; we had to invent that to
satisfy you. We truly wanted you to stay among us. In time you could have
grown up enough--most of you--to live with us as equals. We knew it would
be disastrous for you to carry back to your world your idea of how we live.
We are the tomorrow of your people; you must grow up to us. There is no
other way to maturity. We could not, of course, keep you here against your
will. Nor could we let you go back, like a poison, into your world. We
could do nothing else but use this drug. The impact of civilization upon
a primitive people like yours...."

The words hazed and faded as the note disintegrated. Lord felt a moment of
desperate yearning, a terrible weight of grief. With an effort he pushed
himself from his chair and pulled open the door into the corridor. He had
to order the ship back while he could still remember; he had to find Niaga
and tell her ...

... tell her. Tell whom? Tell what? Lord stood in the corridor staring
blankly at the metal wall. He was just a little puzzled as to why he was
there, what he had meant to do. He saw Ann Howard coming toward him.

"Did you notice the lurch in the ship, Mr. Lord?" she asked.

"Yes, I suppose I did." Was that why he had left his cabin?

"I thought we were having trouble with the time-power calibration, but I
checked with Don and he says everything's all right." She glanced through
the open door of his cabin at the electronic pattern on the scanning
screen. "Well, we'll be home in another twenty hours, Mr. Lord. It's a pity
we didn't contact any new planets on this mission. It would have been a
good experience for you."

"Yes, I rather hoped so, too."

He went back to his desk. Strange, he couldn't remember what it was he had
wanted to do. He shrugged his shoulders and laughed a little to himself. It
definitely wouldn't do--not at all--for a Lord to have lapses of memory.

THE END




TRANSCRIBER'S NOTES


This etext was produced from Amazing Science Fiction Stories, January 1960.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on
this publication was renewed.

The following corrections have been applied to the text:

Page 9: money has no meaning to these people and, if Don intends to stay
here, it won't mean much to him,{superfluous quotation mark removed}
either."

Page 9: "I'm sure you can get help from this--" her{original had Her} lip
curled{original had a period here} "--this native girl of yours. What's her
name?"

Page 13: Lord answered,{original omitted this comma} "We landed in order
to repair our ship, but I hope we can make a trade treaty with your
government."

Page 16: "How?{superfluous quotation mark removed} A law is a statement of
a truth in human relationship;





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Impact, by Irving E. Cox

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK IMPACT ***

***** This file should be named 25567.txt or 25567.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/5/5/6/25567/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Andrew Wainwright and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
