The Project Gutenberg EBook of Mother America, by Sam McClatchie

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Mother America

Author: Sam McClatchie

Illustrator: Dan Adkins

Release Date: August 3, 2008 [EBook #26180]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOTHER AMERICA ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









    _When a country is as champion-conscious as America, it's surprising
    that no one has yet developed the ultimate contest. Dr. McClatchie,
    whose recent novel, "The Last Vial," established him as a
    top-ranking sf writer, now tells us the engaging story of the
    geneticists' search for ..._


_Mother America_

By SAM McCLATCHIE, M.D.

Illustrated by ADKINS


The tall young man faded back quickly, poised for an instant and then
threw a long high pass. The crowd came up roaring. Twenty yards from the
goal line a smaller, sturdier player swerved quickly around the end and
took the pass in his stride. With a beautiful curving run he tricked the
fullback, crossed the line and then, showing no sign of effort, trotted
back up the field and threw the ball to the umpire.

"Wonderful! What a magnificent runner that lad is! You're lucky to have
him, George." The speaker, a trimly built, athletic man in his middle
forties turned to his companion, talking loudly above the buzz of the
crowd.

George Turner nodded agreement. "We are. Every other University in the
States was after him. He's the first Boy America you know. We've been
watching him for years."

"The first Boy America?" John Harmon echoed in surprise. "I didn't know
that. You did say Boy America ... not All American?"

"He's both; All American in football and a Boy America too."

The gun signalled the end of the game and the two men rose from their
box seats to go out. Directly below them the players trotted quickly
towards the dressing rooms. Harmon leaned over to watch.

[Illustration]

"There he is now. A fine-looking boy too!" He studied the young man's
face intently. "Y'know he reminds me of somebody ... somebody I know
well, but I can't put my finger on it."

"I'm not surprised. He's Gloria Manson's boy."

Harmon frowned. "No, that's not it, George. Of course there's the
resemblance to his mother ... and who could forget the glorious Gloria
even after twenty years. But it was the way he moved, and that smile."
He shook his head. "It'll come to me yet."

They took the belt walk to the parking area and stepped off it at
George's car. Moving quietly on its air cushion, the car joined the
line-up out on the main road where George locked the controls on to
Route 63. The speed rose to eighty and steadied as the car settled into
its place in the traffic pattern. Relaxed in their seats the two men lit
their anticancers and puffed contentedly as they watched the scenery. It
would be another hour before George would need to touch the controls as
they neared home.

"So he looks like someone you know?" George asked. "I'd like to know who
it is just out of curiosity. As you are aware, no one but the Genetic
Panel knows whose sperm is used to impregnate the Mother America."

"I haven't got it yet, George, but I will. Were you the geneticist for
this boy?"

"Yes, I was. I told you he was Gloria Manson's. Don't you remember when
you met her?"

"Soaring satellites!" Harmon exclaimed. "How could I forget? You
introduced me to her."

"Twenty years ago," Turner mused. "What a crazy week that was. I guess
you were glad to get back to the Space Force."

"In a way," Harmon agreed. "I've often wondered where you were since
then. I never dreamed you'd be Dean of the Genetics Faculty when I came
to the Space Engineering School."

"I hope you'll like it here," George said. "They couldn't have picked a
better Director."

       *       *       *       *       *

The senator from Alaska had the floor. He had had it for several hours
now and the chamber was almost empty as he droned on.

"And so, gentlemen, I feel that the greatest state in the union, the
only state that can afford to increase its population because there is
still some unoccupied space, the only state where anti-conception
vaccination is not compulsory until after four children instead of two,
the state where ordinary people will have room to get out and exercise
instead of being spectators, this state of Alaska, I say, is the only
state that should be considered when we select a fine, virile American
male as the father of America's Child of the Year. I would dare to go
farther and say we should also provide the female, Mother America of
1995, except that our President, my fellow Alaskan, has generously
decided that no one state can have both mother and father. Alaska is a
man's country. It should provide the man ..."

Wearily George Turner got up and turned off the colorvision. The
political pressures were increasing rapidly; that was obvious. What had
started as a national search for the most suitable future parents in
America would soon be a free-for-all. He would have to give the
committee his choice, and quickly! Back to his work he went; calculating
possibilities, eliminating entrants one by one. The National Genetics
Laboratory had been given the task of screening the finalists from each
state and Turner, much against his will, had been selected by the
Director to do the work.

"George," he'd said one fateful morning, "I have a job for you."

"What's that, sir?"

"You've seen the report of this new contest being run by Dee Lish Baby
Foods, haven't you?"

"Can't say I have, sir. I've been working on that new sex gene. Haven't
had time to read the papers."

"Oh? Well it all started on their colorvision program, the one where
they select the All American babies. You've seen it haven't you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Turner shook his head.

"Sputtering sputniks! I know you're all wrapped up in your work but it
doesn't have to be a shroud. You'd better get out into the world a
little." The Director laid a friendly arm on George's shoulder. "This
job will be just the thing."

"What job?"

"Why, the contest! Dee Lish separate the babies into three groups.
There's the natural All American baby selected from families in the
two-baby group; then there's a prize for best baby in the unlimited
family section. Naturally, since those parents are in the genetically
superior group, it wouldn't be fair to pit them against the two-baby
families. Then there's a class for babies of artificially impregnated
mothers, both married and single. It's a very popular program. The
prizes are wonderful and the winners in the limited family class are
allowed to have more children than their quota, all expenses paid of
course."

"I can see why it's popular all right," George said, "but where do I
come in?"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Three months ago the Dee Lish scenario writers had a brainstorm. They
reasoned that if they began a new contest to pick the most suitable
mother in America and then had her impregnated, artificially of course,
by the most suitable donor, they would stir up all sorts of excitement
for the next nine months and produce a baby that should be a
worldbeater. The mother would be given a tremendous annuity, for life,
and the babe assured of all expenses right through college."

"It all sounds faintly nauseating to me."

"George, you're impossible. A geneticist who still believes in
fortuitous breeding!"

"I'm not so darn sure we can pick 'em better any other way. We certainly
haven't got all the answers."

"I agree, George, I agree," the Director's smile was still friendly, if
a little strained. "This is a National Laboratory, however, and the
President rang me up the other day and asked that we do the final
screening."

"The President? But this is a commercial gag!"

"Not any longer, my boy. You see the Russians recently came out with a
wonder drug, a sort of gene stimulator, that they claim produces highly
intelligent and well-proportioned children. The Chinese now claim that,
by using a controlled environment in their communes, they are producing
a super race. We had to do something! Our side is going to claim that
the union of a red-blooded American male and a modern capitalist female
will produce offspring far superior to anything else in the world, thus
demonstrating the supremacy of the American way of life."

"Dear God! Why pick me?"

"You're junior to all the others, for one thing. And besides, you'll
still be around to see Boy America grow up."

"Boy America?"

"Each year there will be a new contest; a boy the first year, a girl the
second and so on. You'll have to appear on colorvision of course. It
will be a nice change for you, and good for the Laboratory too! New York
is a grand town for a vacation."

       *       *       *       *       *

"New York is a grand town for a vacation," George thought bitterly, as
he parried the reporters' persistent questions in the lobby of
Coloraudio System a week later.

"Say Doc, what about this super-female from Texas," one needler shouted
above the babble.

"So what about her?" George said gruffly.

"Senator Bragg says she should be the one selected for Mother America."

"Look, friend, Senator Bragg is a Texan and a politician. Naturally he
wants his state to have the honor. I'll pick the one I think best
qualified!"

"Yeah, Doc, we know. But what is this super-female gag anyway?"

"Some women have more female sex genes than others. She happens to have
the most ever reported to the Genetic Registry. Has the Senator seen
her?"

"He didn't say."

"He should take a look sometime. She's five feet five, one hundred and
sixty pounds and looks like a Texas longhorn, without the horns." He
brushed past the reporter. "You got any more bright ideas?"

A New York reporter pulled on his coat sleeve. Annoyed by their
persistence Turner shrugged free.

"Doctor Turner," the man said. "What do you think of this idea of using
the Man from Mars as the male donor?"

"You mean Captain Jack Harmon of the Space Force?"

"Yes. He's in town for the big parade right now."

"Look, we can't tell you who the donor will be. It's against the law,
remember?" Turner quoted the rule, "Under Section 48b, single females
may bear children if they wish, when authorized by law, but are not
allowed to pick the donor. He must remain anonymous. The local Genetics
Panel does the choosing. Besides, Harmon has been in space for months.
Who knows what changes there may be in his sex glands."

They reached the conference room and entered. The Dee Lish
representative looked at his watch and raised his hands.

"Gentlemen, no more questions please. We have a program on the air
tonight and Doctor Turner has to be prepared." When the room cleared he
turned to George. "Doctor, will you be ready to name the winner on
tonight's program?"

Turner shook his head. "You know I've interviewed all the finalists but
one, Miss Gloria Manson. Until I see her I can't decide. I haven't
talked to her at all but her press agent promised he would have her here
this afternoon."

"That's Gloria Manson the actress-dramatist?"

"Yes, the one who wrote _The Canals of Mars_ and takes the female lead."

"Roaring rockets! If she wins what a blastoff that will be."

"I don't understand."

"We have arranged with the Mayor of New York that the winner will ride
with Captain Jack Harmon tomorrow in the big parade celebrating his
return from Mars. And Miss Manson is the star in a hilarious hit about
space. What could be better?"

"To stop the whole damn foolishness altogether," said George gloomily
and ignored the hurt look on the press agent's face.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were getting up to leave when the door burst open and slammed
against the wall. A tall, beautifully dressed and shaped brunette
brushed aside a little man who was trying to talk to her and strode into
the room. Her green eyes narrowed like a cat's after a bird.

"Which of you is the geneticist?" she demanded, and then to George, "You
... you must be ... you aren't dressed like a business man. Your suit is
five years out of style."

Abashed, George looked at himself. "What's wrong with it?"

"You'd never understand and I haven't time to tell you. What I want to
know is, who gave you the right to use my name in this silly Mother
America contest. And you," she turned on the Dee Lish agent, "quit
gawping at me. I'm not going to blast off. Who are you anyway?"

"Miss Manson, please!" The little man was in front of her again. "If the
reporters hear about this ..."

"Oh shut up, Harry! All right, Doctor, what's your excuse?"

George rallied and attacked. "I haven't any, Miss Manson. I didn't ask
for your name. It was submitted to me as a possibility from the Dee
Lish Company. You needn't worry, however. You are displaying adequate
reasons for me to disqualify your entry right now."

"Oh, an advertising stunt, is it? Harry, this is your idea ... you and
that pap purveyor!"

"But Gloria, think of the publicity ... the big parade with the man from
Mars! Why your play would run for years!"

"OK, I'll do it!" she said with a big smile and watched the ad-men's
gloomy faces change to astonished delight. "There's just one little
thing ... if I win!" She prodded Harry in the chest with a long stiff
finger.

"Yes, dear ... anything!"

"_YOU_ have the baby!" The scowl came back to her face. "You utter
idiots ... you misfired missiles! How in the Universe do you think I can
play a romantic lead wearing a maternity dress?"

George chuckled with delight at the thought and she turned on him.

"What's so funny, Doctor? And what do you mean I'm disqualified from the
contest? What's wrong with me?"

"Not a thing, Miss Manson." He grinned happily at her. "But if you can
stand having dinner with a man in an old-fashioned suit, I'll tell you
why Mother America should be a contented cow instead of a tantalizing
tigress."

"Hm, this is one orbit I haven't travelled." She smiled and nodded her
approval. "Set me a course, Navigator."

They moved towards the door together.

"Doctor! The program tonight ... have you forgotten?"

George looked back and waved airily. "Don't worry. I'll be there. And
we'll name the winner too!"

       *       *       *       *       *

"Well now, Gloria, the dessert!" George was saying. "What'll it be,
crepes suzette?"

She smiled across the table. "Mm," she considered the menu carefully. "I
think I'll stick to good old American apple pie and cheese."

"A genuine American small town girl, with small town likes and dislikes!
That's what you are underneath the glamour. Aren't you?"

She laughed and raised her champagne glass. "And this is from the
home-town vineyard too?"

George leaned towards her, his face a little flushed with the wine.
"Gloria, with your ability as an actress we could play the biggest
practical joke in the history of colorvision. If only I dared!"

"What's your idea, George?"

"I'm sick of all this pseudo-scientific nonsense about genetics," he
said, "and I'm even sicker of the crass commercialism and political
propaganda surrounding this Mother America business."

"George, you surprise me more and more! I thought you did this for the
money and publicity, to say nothing of the great honor."

"Stop kidding, Gloria! You know I was ordered to do it by the
Department. All I get is an expense account from Dee Lish Baby Foods.
The thing that really bothers me is the type of winner I have to pick."

"Have to pick? You have free choice, don't you?"

"Not really. The people who watch that program, from the President on
down, including our Director too, expect a sweet wholesome type ... you
know, curvy in the right places like a Miss America but wouldn't think
of posing in a bathing suit. They want an adolescent dream girl type,
the kind that goes well with a rose-covered cottage and four
rosy-cheeked kids all waiting for Daddy to come home."

"But most women work in America today."

"I know but the dream remains, along with the cowboy, the daring Air
Force pilot, the self-made business tycoon and all the other romantic
stereotypes of the first half of the century. She makes togetherness
seem right, and God knows we have so many people today we're together
whether we like it or not. So that's the type I have to pick."

"Where does the joke come in?"

"If you'd play the part of the American dream girl you'd win that
contest going away, like a four stage rocket booster."

"But I don't want to have a baby by remote control."

"You wouldn't have to. You can always withdraw before the impregnation
ceremony."

"Suppose I do it, what's the point?"

"Well for one thing, you'd show how easily people are fooled by
appearances and smart propaganda. As a geneticist I can only go so far
and be honest. I can make sure you have good heredity; that you have no
obvious physical or mental defects; that your chance of having certain
disabling diseases are small; that your intelligence is high, and so on.
I can't really measure things such as initiative, wit, courage,
determination, all the things that make one human so much better than
another of equal physical and mental capacity."

"Educated people know that already."

"True, but it needs constant emphasis or it is forgotten under the
propaganda. Besides, I don't believe in mating people like cattle or
slaves. That's why this whole thing is a travesty of love and marriage.
I hate being used to give it a semblance of scientific authenticity. I'm
going to declare the top four contestants equal. They are, as far as I
am concerned, genetically speaking. The audience will decide the winner.
They'll love it and so will the sponsor. The other three are real
American dream girls. I want you to outsmart them at their own game ...
and tell America later what a farce it all was."

"You really are a romantic, underneath the cynicism," Gloria said
wonderingly. "I didn't think scientists were built with hearts any
more." She reached across and took his hand. "But I like you that way.
Do you think I could do it?"

"Easily. Just pretend you are Ellen the Earthling from that comedy of
yours. That's the type they want."

"Yes, but when I bow out later they'll be calling me Marina the Martian
Menace ... that won't be so funny."

"They won't, Gloria. You can laugh it off as a publicity stunt and get
them laughing with you. Who knows, it might even stop this mad fad of
career women having babies without a proper home and a father to raise
them."

She laughed. "Are you afraid you're going to be replaced by a machine,
George?" her eyes twinkled with amusement.

He grinned. "Oh, we still have our uses. Time to go. Will you do it?"

She stood up. "I'll play it by ear. If the audience is the type you say
they are, it will be a pleasure."

       *       *       *       *       *

The parade was over. Now, as they waited for the banquet and the
speeches to begin, John Harmon spoke to Turner.

"You're a lucky man, George."

"Why?"

"Spending so much time with Gloria. She had me laughing all the way up
Wall Street with her remarks about the parade. If I didn't have to go
back to the base tomorrow I'd steal her for a date." He turned to
Gloria. "I mean it, honey. You really leave me weightless!"

Gloria smiled at him. "I'll take a recount, John. We can blast off some
other time."

After the banquet the Mayor of New York made the major address of the
evening. "And so, ladies and gentleman," he concluded, "you have seen
today two people who represent the end of one era and the beginning of
another. The lovely lady on my right is to be the first Mother America.
For the first time in history, our nation is actively planning our
future citizens. It is true that for years now, with the help of the
Genetics Laboratories, represented so ably by Doctor Turner, individual
citizens have planned their parenthood, but never before have a
President and Congress given their approval, their official blessing,
for such a purpose. This then is a milestone we have passed, a point in
our history we will never forget."

"They'll never forget me either when I back out," Gloria whispered to
George. "I'm getting worried. We're in too deep."

"Don't be scared, baby," George said. "I'll get you out of it, if you
have to fall sick to do it." He patted her arm reassuringly but somehow,
without the rosy glow of a bottle of wine to color this view, the joke
didn't seem as funny as it had the previous night.

The Mayor continued. "Another point in our history was passed when this
young man on my left, at that time Captain, now Major John Harmon of the
Space Force, returned from Mars. He and his crew represent the end of
our isolation in space. The Moon, after all, is a satellite of Earth.
Mars is another planet, and Major Harmon has landed there. We are not
likely in our time to see another such event since the next big step,
beyond the Solar System, will require a technology we do not possess.
So, ladies and gentlemen, you, tonight, are witnessing the beginning of
a new age, an age of supermen borne by women of America, such as Gloria
Manson, and led by heroes such as John Harmon. I propose we drink a
toast to them ... together."

       *       *       *       *       *

Afterwards, in Gloria's apartment, the three of them sat and talked
until late. Then John Harmon looked at his watch and got up to leave.

"I have to catch the ramjet out of La Guardia," he said. "We start
planning the next space trip in Colorado tomorrow, or rather this
morning. It's been fun." He shook George's hand and kissed Gloria
quickly. "I'll be seeing you one of these days."

George shut the door behind him. "I guess I'd better go now," he said.

"No! Have one for the road," Gloria said quickly. "I want to talk to
you."

George poured another Scotch. "You still worried?"

"A bit," she admitted. "What is the next step?"

"Now I'm supposed to pick the male donor."

"I thought you'd done that already."

"No. You see we have to know what blood types the female has and what
her genetic structure is; whether she has any antibodies against sperm
and so on, before we pick the male. To do it before the winner is
picked would entail a lot of unnecessary work."

"Then we still have some time before the impregnation ceremony?"

"I can stall for maybe four weeks ... no longer. You see I have to
consider your cycle too." He got up to go. "Gloria, I guess I was half
lit last night. I'm sorry. It was a damn-fool idea."

She came close to him. "But you really do believe in the old-fashioned
marriage, even if not in the old-fashioned girl?"

"Yes, I do. I still think people should be in love and not just mated
because a calculating machine says they'll produce superior offspring."

"You're sweet." She put her arms around his neck and kissed him. The
kiss lasted ... and lasted. Finally George broke it off.

"My God!" he mumbled. "Don't we have enough problems, without this?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Three weeks later, on Monday, George announced he had a suitable donor.
The New York Genetics Panel, in session, considered the records and
announced that permission was granted for one Gloria Manson, spinster,
of New York City, to bear a child by artificial impregnation. The date
was set for Wednesday. On Tuesday night George went to Gloria's
apartment.

"What are we going to do?" Gloria asked as she watched George wearing a
path on the rug. "We've left it awfully late."

"I couldn't do anything else," George said. "We can't plead illness as
I'd hoped to do. This afternoon the panel decided on a last minute
independent medical check to be sure you're OK. That means I can't fake
it and there's no time to give you a cold or some mild illness now.
Somehow I've got to stall past the fertile period and then we will have
another month to think of something."

"How long is the fertile period?"

"Our tests show that in your case it is approximately twenty-four hours
and begins about midnight tonight."

"Couldn't I disappear for a day or pretend I'm frightened of having a
baby and call it off? Goodness knows we're both getting frightened right
now." She poured out two stiff drinks.

"You can't just quit, Gloria. The whole nation has been whipped up into
hysteria over this business, both by the politicians in their
anticommunist speeches and by the sponsors on Coloraudio system. I never
dreamed it could put a whole country into orbit ... but it has. We'll
both be ruined if I can't figure a way out that doesn't anger the
public." He drained his glass and began pacing again.

"If I have to go on with it can't you at least do something to prevent
conception?" Gloria asked. "I don't mean vaccination. I want to have
children later. I can stand the ceremony if I know I won't become
pregnant."

"In that case I could give you a shot of antiserum against sperm,"
George said. "That would stop pregnancy all right."

"Would it make me sterile for long?"

"Oh no ... no! I wouldn't use pooled serum from all types anyway. You
see we make some specific serum when we are testing each donor and it
works only against the sperm of that particular man."

"Then we're all right? All I need is a shot?"

George shook his head. "I'm afraid to risk it, Gloria. They'll probably
examine your blood tomorrow. If they found the specific antibody, or
even a general antisperm antibody, that would really get us into trouble
for fraud." He shook his head. "No. I'm afraid that's not the answer. I
don't know what to do." He poured another drink and downed it.

"George," Gloria wailed, her control breaking at last, "I don't want a
test-tube husband, a parent by proxy. I want a man!" She began to cry.

He came over to the couch and dropped down beside her. "Darling, please!
Please don't cry. There must be a way to beat this." He took her in his
arms.

       *       *       *       *       *

The aircar warning light came on and the buzzer sounded. George unhooked
the automatic pilot and took over. They swung into University City and
across the campus to the Faculty residential area.

"I certainly was lucky to find a job here on retirement from the Space
Force," John Harmon said. "It was good of you to invite me to stay the
week-end. Are you sure Mrs. Turner won't mind?"

"Quite sure." George smiled. "She's been looking forward to meeting
you." He pulled the car into a spacious port and opened the front door
of the house for Harmon. A tall, good-looking brunette moved to meet
them.

"So nice to meet you, Mrs. ..." Harmon began automatically. "Great
mountains of the moon! Gloria ... Gloria Manson!" He turned to George.
"You didn't tell me."

"You mean you didn't know?" Gloria asked, and kissed him affectionately.

"I found out that he didn't. He was back in space at the time we were
married." George said. "I wanted to surprise him." A happy smile
creased his face.

Harmon stared at him. "Oh no!" he said and began to laugh. They watched
him, astonished. He tried to talk. "George ... ha, ha ... Wonderful!" He
convulsed again, struggled to a chair and collapsed. "The boy ..." he
whispered weakly between great whoops.

"The boy? Then you guessed!" The wide smile split George's face again.

"Yes, that smile ... couldn't miss it. But how?" Harmon had recovered.
They went into the living room and sat down to talk.

"So there we were," George concluded, "tanking up on lox and nothing
coming out but smoke. I was getting a bit woozy when Gloria asked me
what time it was.

"I looked at my watch. 'It's midnight,' I said. That did it.

"'Midnight!' she screeched and gave me the green-eyed tiger look. 'Well,
George Turner, maybe you can't think of something ... but I can!'

"About nine in the morning the secretary of the panel called my room at
the hotel. 'The ceremony is at ten, Doctor!' she said. 'We are waiting
for you.'

"Man, what a head I had! You could have pushed the Destruct button and
I'd never have known. Anyway I got to the hospital and there was
Gloria, looking absolutely beautiful. There were press photographers
everywhere. We went through with the ceremony and that was that. Nine
months later, with a lot of sonic booming, Boy America was born. You saw
him today."

"But he looks like you," John protested.

"He should," Gloria said. "He's his."

"But ..." John hesitated. "I don't want to pry, but how can you be
sure?"

Gloria laughed. "Well, I know what we did the first couple of hours
after midnight. You tell him the rest, George."

"There isn't much else to tell," George said. "After the ceremony I gave
her a shot of the specific antiserum as soon as I could get her alone.
Later the committee examined her blood. They found she was pregnant so
nobody even thought of testing for antisperm bodies. Then the boy was
born. Naturally I was a bit concerned. I took blood samples and did
genetic studies. There was no doubt. He was my son."

"And nobody ever suspected?" Harmon asked.

"No," Turner said. "The law prescribes examination before pregnancy but
not afterwards. We were married three months later and everybody was
very happy. As for the boy looking like me, everyone who has noticed it
assumes I picked a donor like myself. It would be a natural
inclination."

"So much for planned parenthood in the new era," Harmon chuckled. "The
poor Mayor of New York! If only he knew." He grinned slyly. "Somehow I
always did like the old way best."


THE END




As a service to our readers, we list the "Hugo" award winners for 1960:

    Best Fan Mag: "Who Killed Science Fiction"--Earl Kemp
    Best SF Artist: Ed Emshwiller
    Best Short Story: "The Longest Voyage" by Poul Anderson
    Best Dramatic Work: "The Twilight Zone"
    Best SF Magazine: _Analog_
    Best Novel: "A Canticle for Leibowitz" by Walter Miller, Jr.

These were presented at the 19th annual World Science Fiction Convention
held in Seattle, Washington, September 1-4.




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Stories_ December 1961.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Mother America, by Sam McClatchie

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MOTHER AMERICA ***

***** This file should be named 26180.txt or 26180.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/6/1/8/26180/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
