The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Gallery, by Roger Phillips Graham

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Gallery

Author: Roger Phillips Graham

Illustrator: Llewellyn

Release Date: October 16, 2008 [EBook #26936]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GALLERY ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









 THE
 GALLERY

 By ROG PHILLIPS

 ILLUSTRATOR LLEWELLYN


 _Aunt Matilda needed him
 desperately, but when he
 arrived she did not want
 him and neither did anyone
 else in his home town._


I was in the midst of the fourth draft of my doctorate thesis when Aunt
Matilda's telegram came. It could not have come at a worse time. The
deadline for my thesis was four days away and there was a minimum of
five days of hard work to do on it yet. I was working around the clock.

If it had been a telegram informing me of her death I could not have
taken time out to attend the funeral. If it had been a telegram saying
she was at death's door I'm very much afraid I would have had to call
the hospital and order them to keep her alive a few days longer.

Instead, it was a tersely worded appeal. ARTHUR STOP COME AT ONCE STOP
AM IN TERRIBLE TROUBLE STOP DO NOT PHONE STOP AUNT MATILDA.

So there was nothing else for me to do. I laid the telegram aside and
kept on working on my thesis. That is not as heartless as it might seem.
I simply could not imagine Aunt Matilda in terrible trouble. The end of
the world I could imagine, but not Aunt Matilda in trouble.

[Illustration: Wherever he went Arthur felt the power behind the lens.]

She was the classic flat-chested ageless spinster living alone in the
midst of her dustless bric-a-brac and Spode in a frame house of the same
vintage as herself at the edge of the classic small town of Sumac, near
the southwest corner of Wisconsin. I had visited her for two days over a
year ago, and she had looked exactly the same as she had when I stayed
with her when I was six all summer, and there was no question but what
she would some day attend my funeral when I died of old age, and she
would still look the same as always.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no conceivable trouble of terrestrial origin that could touch
her--or would want to. And, as it turned out, I was right in that
respect.

I was right in another respect too. By finishing my thesis I became a
Ph.D. on schedule, and if I had abandoned all that and rushed to Sumac
the moment I received the telegram it could not have materially altered
the outcome of things. And Aunt Matilda, hanging on the wall of my
study, knitting things for the Red Cross, will attest to that.

You, of course, might argue about her being there. You might even insist
that I am hanging on her wall instead. And I would have to agree with
you, since it all depends on the point of view and as I sit here typing
I can look up and see myself hanging on her wall.

But perhaps I had better begin at the beginning when, with my thesis
behind me, I arrived on the 4:15 milk run, as they call the train that
stops on its way past Sumac.

I was in a very disturbed state of mind, as anyone who has ever turned
in a doctorate thesis can well imagine. For the life of me I couldn't be
sure whether I had used _symbol_ or _token_ on line 7, sheet 23, of my
thesis, and it was a bad habit of mine to unconsciously interchange them
unpredictably, and I knew that Dr. Walters could very well vote against
acceptance of my thesis on that ground alone. Also, I had thought of a
much better opening sentence to my thesis, and was having to use will
power to keep from rushing back to the university to ask permission to
change it.

I had practically no sleep during the fourteen-hour run, and what sleep
I did have had been interrupted by violent starts of awaking with a
conviction that this or that error in the initial draft of my thesis had
not been corrected by the final draft. And then, of course, I would have
to think the thing through and recall when I had made the correction,
before I could go back to sleep.

So I was a wreck, mentally, if not physically, when I stepped off the
train onto the wooden depot platform that had certainly been built in
the Pleistocene Era, with my oxblood two-suiter firmly clutched in my
left hand.

With snorts of steam and the loud clanking of loose drives, the train
got under way again, its whistle wailing mournfully as the last empty
coach car sped past me and retreated into the distance.

As I stood there, my brain tingling with weariness, and listened to the
absolute silence of the town triumph over the last distant wail of the
train whistle, I became aware that something about Sumac was different.

What it was, I didn't know. I stood where I was a moment longer, trying
to analyze it. In some indefinable way everything looked unreal. That
was as close as I could come to it, and of course having pinned it down
that far I at once dismissed it as a trick of the mind produced by
tiredness.

I began walking. The planks of the platform were certainly real enough.
I circled the depot without going in, and started walking in the
direction of Aunt Matilda's, which was only a short eight blocks from
the depot, as I had known since I was six.

The feeling of the unreality of my surroundings persisted, and with it
came another feeling, of an invisible pressure against me. Almost a
resentment. Not only from the people, but from the houses and even the
trees.

       *       *       *       *       *

Slowly I began to realize that it couldn't be entirely my imagination.
Most of the dozen or so people I passed knew me, and I remembered
suddenly that every other time I had come to Aunt Matilda's they had
stopped to talk with me and I had had to make some excuse to escape
them. Now they were behaving differently. They would look at me absently
as they might at any stranger walking from the direction of the depot,
then their eyes would light up with recognition and they would open
their lips to greet me with hearty welcome.

Then, as though they just thought of something, they would change, and
just say, "Hello, Arthur," and continue on past me.

It didn't take me long to conclude that this strange behavior was
probably caused by something in connection with Aunt Matilda. Had she
perhaps been named as corespondent in the divorce of the local minister?
Had she, of all people, had a child out of wedlock?

Things in a small town can be deadly serious, so by the time her
familiar frame house came into view down the street I was ready to keep
a straight face, no matter what, and reserve my chuckles for the privacy
of her guest room. It would be a new experience, to find Aunt Matilda
guilty of any human frailty. It was slightly impossible, but I had
prepared myself for it.

And that first day her behavior convinced me I was right in my
conclusion.

She appeared in the doorway as I came up the front walk. She was
breathing hard, as though she had been running, and there was a dust
streak on the side of her thin face.

"Hello, Arthur," she said when I came up on the porch. She shook my hand
as limply as always, and gave me a reluctant duty peck on the cheek,
then backed into the house to give me room to enter.

I glanced around the familiar surroundings, waiting for her to blurt out
the cause of her telegram, and feeling a little guilty about not having
come at once.

I felt the loneliness inside her more than I ever had before. There was
a terror way back in her eyes.

"You look tired, Arthur," she said.

"Yes," I said, glad of the opportunity she had given me to explain. "I
had to finish my thesis and get it in by last night. Two solid years of
hard work and it had to be done or the whole thing was for nothing.
That's why I couldn't come four days ago. And you seemed quite insistent
that I shouldn't call." I smiled to let her know that I remembered about
party lines in a small town.

"It's just as well," she said. And while I was trying to decide what the
antecedent of her remark was she said, "You can go back on the morning
train."

"You mean the trouble is over?" I said, relieved.

"Yes," she said. But she had hesitated.

It was the first time I had ever seen her tell a lie.

"You must be hungry," she rushed on. "Put your suitcase in the room and
wash up." She turned her back to me and hurried into the kitchen.

I was hungry. The memory of her homey cooking did it. I glanced around
the front room. Nothing had changed, I thought. Then I noticed the
framed portrait of my father and his three brothers was hanging where
the large print of a basket of fruit used to hang. The basket of fruit
picture was where the portrait should have been, and it was entirely too
big a picture for that spot. I would never have thought Aunt Matilda
could tolerate anything out of proportion. And the darker area of
wallpaper where the fruit picture had prevented fading stood out like a
sore thumb.

I looked around the room for other changes. The boat picture that had
hung to the right of the front door was not there. On the floor under
where it should have been I caught the flash of light from a shard of
glass. Next to it, the drape framing the window was not hanging right.

On impulse I went over and peeked behind the drape. There, leaning
against the wall, was the boat picture with fragments of splintered
glass still in it.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the evidence it appeared that Aunt Matilda had either been trying
to hang the picture where it belonged, or taking it down, and it had
slipped out of her hands and fallen, and she had hidden it behind the
drape and hastily swept up the broken glass.

But why? Even granting that Aunt Matilda might behave in such an erratic
fashion (which was obvious from the evidence), I couldn't imagine a
sensible reason.

It occurred to me, facetiously, that she might have gone in for pictures
of musclemen, and, seeing me coming up the street, she had rushed them
into hiding and brought out the old pictures.

That could account for the evidence--except for one thing. I hadn't
dallied. She could not possibly have seen me earlier than sixty seconds
before I came up the front walk.

Still, the telegrapher at the depot could have called her and told her I
was here when he saw me get off the train.

I shrugged the matter off and went to the guest room. It too was the
same as always, except for one thing. A picture.

It was a color photograph of the church, taken from the street. The
picture was in a frame, but without glass over it, and was about
eighteen inches wide and thirty high.

It was a very good picture. Very lifelike. There was a car parked at the
curb in front of the church, and someone inside the car smoking a
cigarette, and it was so real I would have sworn I could see the
streamer of smoke rising from the cigarette moving.

The odor of good food came from the kitchen, reminding me to get busy. I
opened my two-suiter and took out my toilet kit and went to the
bathroom.

I shaved, brushed my teeth, and combed my hair. Afterward I popped into
my room just for a second to put my toilet kit on the dresser, and
hurried to the dining room.

Something nagged at the back of my mind all the time I was eating. After
dinner Aunt Matilda suggested I'd better get some sleep. I couldn't
argue. I was already asleep on my feet. Her fried chicken and creamed
gravy and mashed potatoes had been an opiate.

I didn't even bother to hang up my clothes. I slipped into the heaven of
comfort of the bed and closed my eyes. And the next minute it was
morning.

Getting out of bed, I stopped in mid motion. The picture of the church
was no longer on the wall. And as I stared at the blank spot where it
had been, the thing that had nagged me during dinner last night finally
leaped into consciousness.

When I had dashed into the room and out again last night on the way to
the dining room I had glanced briefly at the picture and something had
been different about it. Now I knew what had been different.

The car had no longer been in front of the church.

       *       *       *       *       *

I lit a cigarette and sat on the edge of the bed. I thought about that
picture, and simply could not bring myself to believe the accuracy of
that fleeting impression.

Aunt Matilda had slipped into my room and removed the picture while I
slept. That was obvious. Why had she done that? The fleeting impression
that I couldn't be positive about would give her a sensible reason.

I studied my memory of that picture as I had closely studied it. It had
been a remarkable picture. The more I recalled its details the more
remarkable it became. I couldn't remember any surface gloss or graining
to it, but of course I had not been looking for such things. Only an
expert photographer would notice or recognize such technical details.

My thoughts turned in the direction of Aunt Matilda--and her telegram.
Her source of income, I knew, was her part of the estate of my
grandfather, and amounted to something like thirty thousand dollars. I
knew that she was terrified of touching one cent of the capital, and
lived well within the income from good sound stocks.

       *       *       *       *       *

I took her telegram out of the pocket of my coat which was hanging over
the back of a chair. COME AT ONCE STOP AM IN TERRIBLE TROUBLE ... The
only kind of terrible trouble Matilda could be in was if some swindler
talked her out of some of her capital! And that definitely would not be
easy to do. I grinned to myself at the recollection of her worrying
herself sick once over what would happen to her if there was a
revolution and the new government refused to honor the old government
bonds.

Things began to make sense. Her telegram, then those pictures moved
around in the front room, and the one she had forgotten to hide, in the
guest room. If the other pictures were anything like it, I could see how
Aunt Matilda might cash in on part of her securities to invest in what
she thought was a sure thing.

But sure things are only as good as the people in control of them. Many
a sure thing has been lost to the original investors by stupid decisions
leading to bankruptcy, and many a seemingly sure thing has fleeced a lot
of innocent victims.

Slowly, as I thought it out, I became sure that that was what had
happened.

Then why Aunt Matilda's about-face, hiding the pictures and telling me
to go back to Chicago? Had she threatened whoever was behind this, and
gotten her money back? Or had she again become convinced that her
financial venture was sound?

In either case, why was she trying to keep me from knowing about the
pictures?

I made up my mind. Whether Aunt Matilda liked it or not, I was going to
stay until I got to the bottom of things. What Aunt Matilda evidently
didn't realize was that no inventor who really had something would waste
time trying to find backing in a place like Sumac.

Getting dressed, I decided that first on the agenda would be to find
where Matilda had hidden those pictures, and get a good look at them.

That was simpler than I expected it to be. When I came out of my room I
stuck my head in the kitchen doorway and said good morning to her, and
she leaped to her feet to get some breakfast ready for me. It was
obvious that she was anxious to get me fed and out of the house.

Then I simply took the two steps past the bathroom door to the door to
her bedroom and went in. The pictures were stacked against the side of
her dresser. The one of the church was the first one. It was on its
side.

With a silent whistle of amazement I bent down to watch it. The car was
not parked at the curb in it, but there were several children walking
along, obviously on their way to school. And they were walking. Moving.

       *       *       *       *       *

I picked up the picture. It was as heavy as it should be, but not more.
A faint whisper of sound seemed to come from it. I put my ear closer and
heard children's voices. I explored with my ear close to the surface,
and found that the voices were loudest when my ear was closest to the
one talking, as though the voices came out of the picture directly from
the images!

All it needed to be perfect was a volume control somewhere. I searched,
and found it behind the upper right corner of the picture. I twisted it
very slowly, and the voices became louder. I turned it back to the
position it had been in.

The next picture was of the railroad depot. The telegrapher and baggage
clerk were going around the side of the depot towards the tracks. A
freight train was rushing through the picture.

Even as I watched it in the picture, I heard the wail of a train whistle
in the distance, and it was coming from outside, across town. That
freight train was going through town _right now_.

I put the pictures back the way they had been, and stole softly from
Aunt Matilda's bedroom to the bathroom, and closed the door.

"No wonder Aunt Matilda invested in this thing!" I said to my image in
the mirror as I shaved.

Picture TV would make all other TV receivers obsolete! Full color TV at
that! And with some new principle in stereophonic sound!

What about the fact that neither picture had been plugged into an
outlet? Probably run by batteries.

What about the lack of weight? Obviously a new TV principle was
involved. Maybe it required fewer circuits and less power.

What about the broadcasting end, the cameras? Permanently set up? What
about the broadcast channels?

There had been ten or twelve pictures. I'd only looked at two. Was each
a different scene? Twelve different broadcasting stations in Sumac?

It had me dizzy. Probably the new TV principle was so simple that all
that could be taken care of without millions of dollars worth of
equipment.

A new respect for Aunt Matilda grew in me. She had latched on to a money
maker! It didn't hurt to know that I was her favorite nephew, either.
With my Ph.D. in physics, and my aunt as one of the stockholders, I
could probably land a good job with the company. What a deal!

By the time I finished shaving I was whistling. I was still whistling
when I went into the kitchen for breakfast.

"You'll have to hurry, Arthur," Aunt Matilda said. "Your train leaves in
forty-five minutes."

"I'm not leaving," I said cheerfully.

I went over to the bright breakfast nook and sat down, and took a
cautious sip of coffee. I grunted my approval of it and looked around
toward Aunt Matilda, smiling.

She was staring at me with wide eyes. She looked as haggard as though
she had just heard she had a week to live.

"But you must go!" she croaked as though my not going were unthinkable.

"Nonsense, you old fox," I said. "I know a good thing as well as you do.
I want to get a job with that outfit."

She came toward me with a wild expression on her face.

"Get out!" she screamed. "Get out of my house! I won't have it! You
catch that train and get out of town. Do you hear?"

"But, Aunt Matilda!" I protested.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the end I had to get out or she would have had a stroke. She was
shaking like a leaf, her skin mottled and her eyes wild, as I went down
the front steps with my bag.

"You get that train, do you hear?" was the last thing she screamed at me
as I hurried toward Main Street.

However, I had no intention of leaving town with Aunt Matilda upset that
way. I'd let her have time to cool off, then come back. Meanwhile I'd
try to get to the bottom of things. A thing as big as wall TV in full
color and stereophonic sound must be the talk of the town. I'd find out
where they had their office and go talk with them. A career with
something like that would be the best thing I could ever hope to find.
And getting in on the ground floor!

It surprised me that Aunt Matilda could be so insanely greedy. I shook
my head in wonder. It didn't figure.

I had breakfast at the hotel cafe and made a point of telling the
waitress, who knew me, that it was my second breakfast, and that I had
intended to catch the morning train back to Chicago, but maybe I
wouldn't.

After I finished eating I asked if it would be okay to leave my suitcase
behind the counter while I looked around a bit. She showed me where to
put it so it would be out of the way.

When I paid for my breakfast I half turned away, then turned back
casually.

"Oh, by the way," I said. "Where's this wall TV place?"

"This what?" she said.

"You know," I said. "Color TV like a picture you hang on a wall."

All the color faded from her face. Her eyes went past me, staring. I
turned in the direction she was staring, and on the wall above the
plateglass front of the cafe was a picture.

That is, there was a picture frame and a pair of dark glasses that took
up most of the picture, with the lower part of a forehead and the upper
part of a nose. I had noticed it once while I was eating and had assumed
it was a display ad for sun glasses. Now I looked at it more closely,
but could detect no movement in it. It still looked like an ad for sun
glasses.

"I don't know what you're talking about," I heard the waitress say, her
voice edged with fear.

"Huh?" I said, turning my head back to look at her. "Oh. Well, never
mind."

I left the cafe with every outward appearance of casual innocence; but
inside I was beginning to realize for the first time the possibilities
and the danger that could lie in the use of this new TV development.

That had been a Big-Brother-is-Watching-you setup back there in the
cafe, except that it had been a girl instead of a man, judging from the
style of sun glasses and the smoothness of the nose and forehead.

I had wondered about the broadcasting end of things. Now I knew. That
had been the TV "eye," and somewhere there was a framed picture hanging
on the wall, bringing in everything that took place in the cafe,
including everything that was said. Everything _I_ had said, too. It was
an ominous feeling.

Aunt Matilda had almost had a stroke trying to get me out of town. Now I
knew why. She was caught in this thing and wanted to save me. Four days
ago she had probably not fully realized the potentiality for evil of the
invention, but by the time I showed up she knew it.

Well, she was right. This was not something for me to tackle. I would
keep up my appearance of not suspecting anything, and catch that train
Aunt Matilda wanted me to catch.

       *       *       *       *       *

From way out in the country came the whistle of the approaching milk
run, the train that would take me back to Chicago. In Chicago I would go
to the F.B.I, and tell them the whole thing. They wouldn't believe me,
of course, but they would investigate. If the thing hadn't spread any
farther than Sumac it would be a simple matter to stop it.

I'd hurry back to the cafe and get my suitcase and tell the waitress
I'd decided to catch the train after all.

I turned around.

Only I didn't turn around.

That's as nearly as I can describe it. I did turn around. I know I did.
But the town turned around with me, and the sun and the clouds and the
countryside. So maybe I only thought I turned around.

When I tried to stop walking it was different. I simply could not stop
walking. Nothing was in control of my mind. It was more like stepping on
the brakes and the brakes not responding.

I gave up trying, more curious about what was happening than alarmed. I
walked two blocks along Main Street. Ahead of me I saw a sign. It was
the only new sign I had seen in Sumac. In ornate Neon script it said,
"PORTRAITS by Lana."

       *       *       *       *       *

I don't know whether my feet took me inside independently of my mind or
not, because I was sure that this was the place and I wanted to go in
anyway.

Not much had been done to modernize the interior of the shop. I
remembered that the last time I had been here it had been a stamp
collector headquarters run by Mr. Mason and his wife. The counter was
still there, but instead of stamp displays it held a variety of standard
portraits such as you can see in any portrait studio. None of the TV
portraits were on display here.

The same bell that used to tinkle when I came into the stamp store
tinkled in back of the partition when I came in. A moment later the
curtain in the doorway of the partition parted, and a girl came out.

How can I describe her? In appearance she was anyone of a thousand
smartly dressed brunettes that wait on you in quality photograph
studios, and yet she wasn't. She was as much above that in cut as the
average smartly dressed girl is above a female alcoholic after a ten-day
drunk. She was perfect. Too perfect. She was the type of girl a man
would dream of meeting some day, but if he ever did he would run like
hell because he could never hope to live up to such perfection.

"You have come to have your portrait taken?" she asked. "I am Lana."

"I thought you already had my portrait," I said. "Didn't you get it from
that eye in the hotel cafe?"

"It's not the same thing," Lana said. "Through an eye you remain a
variable in the Mantram complex. It takes the camera to fix you, so that
you are an iconic invariant in the Mantram." She smiled and half turned
toward the curtain she had come through. "Would you step this way,
please?" she invited.

"How much will it cost?" I said, not moving.

"Nothing, of course!" Lana said. "Terrestrial money is of no use to me
since you have nothing I would care to buy. And don't be alarmed. No
harm will come to you, or anyone else." A fleeting expression of concern
came over her. "I realize that many of the people of Sumac are quite
alarmed, but that is to be expected of a people uneducated enough to
still be superstitious."

I went past her through the curtain. Behind the partition I expected to
see out-of-this-world scientific equipment stacked to the ceiling.
Instead, there was only a portrait camera on a tripod. It had a long
bellows and would take a plate the same size as that picture of the
church I had seen.

"You see?" Lana said. "It's just a camera." She smiled disarmingly.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went toward it casually, and suddenly I stopped as though another mind
controlled my actions. When I gave up the idea I had had of smashing the
camera, the control vanished.

There was no lens in the lens frame. "Where's the lens?" I said.

"It doesn't use a glass lens," Lana said. "When I take the picture a
lens forms just long enough to focus the elements of your body into a
Mantram fix." She touched my shoulder. "Would you sit down over there,
please?"

"What do you mean by a Mantram fix?" I asked her.

She paused by the camera and smiled at me. "I use your language," she
said. "In some of your legends you have the notion of a Mantram, or what
you consider magical spell. In one aspect the notion is of magical words
that can manipulate natural forces directly. The notion of a devil doll
is a little closer. Only instead of actual substance from the
subject--hair, fingernail parings, and so on--the Mantram matrix takes
the detailed force pattern of the subject, through the lens when it
forms. So, in your concepts, what results is an iconic Mantram. But it
operates both ways. You'll see what I mean by that."

With another placating smile she stepped behind the camera and without
warning light seemed to explode from the very air around me, without any
source. For a brief second I seemed to see--not a glittering lens--but a
black bottomless hole form in the metal circle at the front of the
camera. And--an experience I am familiar with now--I seemed to rush into
the bottomless darkness of that hole and back again, at the rate of
thousands of times a second, arriving at some formless destination and
each time feeling it take on more of form.

"There. That wasn't so bad, was it?" Lana said.

I felt strangely detached, as though I were in two places at the same
time. I told her so.

"You'll get used to it," she assured me. "In fact, you will get to enjoy
it. _I_ do. Especially when I've made several prints."

"Why are you doing this?" I asked. "Who are you? _What_ are you?"

"I'm a photographer!" Lana said. "I'm connected with the natural history
museum of the planet I live on. I go to various places and take
pictures, and they go into exhibits for the people to watch."

She pulled the curtain aside for me to leave.

"You're going to let me leave? Just like that?" I said.

"Of course." She smiled again. "You're free to go wherever you wish, to
your aunt's or back to Chicago. I was glad to get your portrait. In
return, I'll send you one of the prints. And would you like one of your
aunt's? Actually, when she came in to have her picture taken it was for
the purpose of sending it to you. She was my first customer. I've taken
a special liking to her and given her several pictures."

"Yes," I said. "I would like one of Aunt Matilda."

When I emerged from the shop I discovered to my surprise that the train
was just pulling into the depot. An urge to get far away from Sumac
possessed me. I trotted to the cafe to get my bag, and when the train
pulled out I was on it.

       *       *       *       *       *

There's little more to tell. In Chicago once again, I spent a most
exasperating two days trying to inform the F.B.I., the police, or anyone
who would listen to me. My fingers couldn't dial the correct phone
number, and at the crucial moment each time I grew tongue-tied. My last
attempt was a letter to the F.B.I., which I couldn't remember to mail,
and when I finally did remember I couldn't find it.

Then the express package from Sumac came. With fingers that visibly
trembled I took out the two framed pictures, one of Aunt Matilda in the
process of dusting the front room. All of her pictures that she had
hidden from me were back in their places on the walls. While I watched
her move about, she went into the sewing room, and there I saw a picture
on the wall that looked familiar.

It was of me, an opened express package at my feet, a framed picture
held in my hands, and I was staring at it intently.

In the picture I was holding, Aunt Matilda looked in my direction and
waved, smiling in the prim way she smiles when she is contented. I
understood. She had me with her now.

I laid the picture down carefully, and took the second one out of the
box.

It was not a picture at all, it was a mirror!

It couldn't be anything except a mirror. And yet, suddenly, I realized
it wasn't. The uncanny feeling came over me that I had transposed into
the mirror and was looking out at myself. Even as I got that feeling I
shifted and was outside the mirror looking at my image.

I found that I could be in either place by a sort of mental shift,
something like staring at one of the geometrical optical illusions you
can find in any psychology textbook in the chapter on illusions, and
seeing it become something else.

It was strange at first, then it became fun, and now, as I write this,
it is a normal thing. My portrait is where it should be--on the medicine
cabinet in the bathroom, where the mirror used to be.

But I can transpose to any of the copies of my portrait, anywhere. To
Aunt Matilda's sewing room, or to the museum, or to Lana's private
collection. The only thing is, it's almost impossible to tell when I
shift, or where I shift to. It just seems to happen.

The reason for that is that my surroundings, no matter in what direction
I look, are exactly identical with my real surroundings. My physical
surroundings are duplicated exactly in all my portraits, just as Aunt
Matilda's are in the portrait of her that hangs on my study wall. She is
the invariant of each of her iconic Mantrams and her surroundings are
the variables that enter and leave the screen. I am the invariant in my
own portraits, wherever they are. So, except for the slight _twist_ in
my mind that takes place when I _shift_, that I have learned to
recognize from practice in front of my "mirror" each morning when I
shave, and except for the portrait of Aunt Matilda, I would never be
able to suspect what happens.

If Lana had taken my picture without my knowing it and I had never seen
one of her collection of portraits, nor ever heard of an iconic Mantram,
I would have absolutely nothing to go on to suspect the truth that I
know. Except for one thing.

I don't quite know how to explain it, except that I must actually
transfer to one of my portraits, and, transferring, I am more real
than--what shall I call it?--the photographic reproduction of my real
surroundings. Then, sometimes, the photographic reproduction, the iconic
illusion, that is my environment when I am _in_ one of the portraits of
me, fades just enough so that I can look "out" into the reality where my
portrait hangs, and see, and even hear the _watchers_, as ghosts in my
solid "reality."

       *       *       *       *       *

Quite often I can only hear them, and then they are voices out of
nowhere, sometimes addressing me directly, just as often talking to one
another and ignoring my _presence_. But when I can see them too, they
appear as ghostly but sharply clear visions that seem to be present in
my solid-looking environment. There, but somewhat transparent.

I have often seen and talked to Lana in this manner, in her far-off
world, where I am part of her private collection. In fact, I can almost
always tell when I _shift_ to my portrait in her gallery, because I am
suddenly exhilarated and remain so until I shift back, or to some other
portrait. That is so even when she is not there but out on one of her
many photographic expeditions.

When she is there, and is watching me, and my thoughts are quiet and my
mind receptive, she becomes visible. A ghost in my study, or the lab
where I work, or--if I am asleep--in my dreams. Like an angel, or a
goddess. And we talk.

       *       *       *       *       *

Back in the physical reality, of course, no one else can hear her voice.
My real body is going through its routine work almost automatically but
my mind, my consciousness, is focused into my portrait in Lana's
gallery, and we are talking. And of course in the real world I am
talking too, but my associates can't see who I'm talking to, and it
would be useless to try to explain to them.

So I'm getting quite a reputation as a nut! Can you imagine that?

But why should I mind? My reality has a much broader and more complex
scope than the limited reality of my associates. I might be fired, or
even sent to a state hospital, except for the fact that Lana foresees
such problems and teaches me enough things in my field that are unknown
to Earth, so that my employers consider me too valuable to lose.

If this story were fiction the ending would have to be that I am in love
with Lana and she with me, and there would be a nice conclusive ending
where she comes back to Earth to marry me and carry me back to her
world, where we would live happily ever after. But the truth of the
matter is that I'm not in love with Lana, nor she with me. Sometimes I
think I am her favorite portrait, but nothing more.

But really, everything is so interesting. Lana's gallery where I hang,
the museum where there are new faces each time I look out, and new
voices when I can't see out, Aunt Matilda's sewing room where she is at
the moment, and all Sumac as she goes about her normal pattern of
living.

It is a rich, full life that I live, shifting here and there in
consciousness while my physical body goes about its necessary tasks, as
often unguided as not. (What a reputation I'm getting for
absent-mindedness, too!)

And out of it all has come a perspective that, when I feel it strongly,
makes me feel almost like a god. In that perspective all my portraits
(and there are many now, on many worlds and in many places on this
world!) blend into one. That one is the stage of my life. But not a
stage, really. A show window. Yes, that is it. A show window, where the
_watchers_ pass.

I live in a show window that opens out in many worlds and many places
that are hidden from me by a veil that sometimes grows thin, so I can
see through it. And from the other side of that veil, even when I cannot
see through it, come the voices of the watchers, as they pass by, or
pause to look at me.

And I am not the only one! There are others. More and more of them, as
Lana comes back on her photographic expeditions for the museum.

None that I have met understand what it is about as fully as I do. Some
have an insight into the true state of things, but very very few.

But that is understandable. Lana can't give the same time to them that
she gives to me. There aren't that many hours in a day! And, you see, I
am her favorite.

If I were not, she would never have permitted me to tell you all this,
so I must be her favorite!

Doesn't that make sense?

I _AM_ her favorite!


THE END




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Stories_ January 1959.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Gallery, by Roger Phillips Graham

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE GALLERY ***

***** This file should be named 26936.txt or 26936.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/6/9/3/26936/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
