Project Gutenberg's The Love of Frank Nineteen, by David Carpenter Knight

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Love of Frank Nineteen

Author: David Carpenter Knight

Release Date: January 28, 2009 [EBook #27921]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LOVE OF FRANK NINETEEN ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









    _What will happen to love in that far off Day after Tomorrow? David
    C. Knight, editor with a New York trade publisher, agrees with the
    many impressed by "the range of possible subjects and situations" in
    science fiction. The result is a unique love story from that same
    Tomorrow._


 the
 love
 of
 frank
 nineteen

 _by DAVID C. KNIGHT_


 Minor Planets was the one solid account they had.
 At first they naturally wanted to hold on to it.


I didn't worry much about the robot's leg at the time. In those days I
didn't worry much about anything except the receipts of the spotel Min
and I were operating out in the spacelanes.

Actually, the spotel business isn't much different from running a plain,
ordinary motel back on Highway 101 in California. Competition gets
stiffer every year and you got to make your improvements. Take the Io
for instance, that's our place. We can handle any type rocket up to and
including the new Marvin 990s. Every cabin in the wheel's got TV and
hot-and-cold running water _plus_ guaranteed Terran _g_. One look at our
refuel prices would give even a Martian a sense of humor. And meals?
Listen, when a man's been spacing it for a few days on those synthetic
foods he really laces into Min's Earth cooking.

Min and I were just getting settled in the spotel game when the leg
turned up. That was back in the days when the Orbit Commission would
hand out a license to anybody crazy enough to sink his savings into
construction and pay the tows and assembly fees out into space.

A good orbit can make you or break you in the spotel business. That's
where we were lucky. The one we applied for was a nice low-eccentric
ellipse with the perihelion and aphelion figured just right to intersect
the Mars-Venus-Earth spacelanes, most of the holiday traffic to the
Jovian Moons, and once in a while we'd get some of the Saturnian trade.

But I was telling you about the leg.

It was during the non-tourist season and Min--that's the little
woman--was doing the spring cleaning. When she found the leg she brought
it right to me in the Renting Office. Naturally I thought it belonged to
one of the servos.

"Look at that leg, Bill," she said. "It was in one of those lockers in
22A."

That was the cabin our robot guests used. The majority of them were
servo-pilots working for the Minor Planets Co.

"Honey," I said, hardly looking at the leg, "you know how mechs are.
Blow their whole paychecks on parts sometimes. They figure the more
spares they have the longer they'll stay activated."

"Maybe so," said Min. "But since when does a male robot buy himself a
_female_ leg?"

I looked again. The leg was long and graceful and it had an ankle as
good as Miss Universe's. Not only that, the white Mylar plasti-skin was
a lot smoother than the servos' heavy neoprene.

"Beats me," I said. "Maybe they're building practical-joke circuits into
robots these days. Let's give 22A a good going-over, Min. If those robes
are up to something I want to know about it."

We did--and found the rest of the girl mech. All of her, that is, except
the head. The working parts were lightly oiled and wrapped in cotton
waste while the other members and sections of the trunk were neatly
packed in cardboard boxes with labels like Solenoids FB978 or
Transistors Lot X45--the kind of boxes robots bought their parts in. We
even found a blue dress in one of them.

"Check her class and series numbers," Min suggested.

I could have saved myself the trouble. They'd been filed off.

"Something's funny here," I said. "We'd better keep an eye on every
servo guest until we find out what's going on. If one of them is
bringing this stuff out here he's sure to show up with the head next."

"You know how strict Minor Planets is with its robot personnel," Min
reminded me. "We can't risk losing that stopover contract on account of
some mech joke."

Minor Planets was the one solid account we had and naturally we wanted
to hold on to it. The company was a blue-chip mining operation working
the beryllium-rich asteroid belt out of San Francisco. It was one of the
first outfits to use servo-pilots on its freight runs and we'd been
awarded the refuel rights for two years because of our orbital position.
The servos themselves were beautiful pieces of machinery and just about
as close as science had come so far to producing the pure android. Every
one of them was plastic hand-molded and of course they were equipped
with rationaloid circuits. They had to be to ferry those big cargoes
back and forth from the rock belt to Frisco. As rationaloids, Minor
Planets had to pay them wages under California law, but I'll bet it
wasn't half what the company would have to pay human pilots for doing
the same thing.

In a couple of weeks' time maybe five servos made stopovers. We kept a
close watch on them from the minute they signed the register to the time
they took off again, but they all behaved themselves. Operating on a
round-robot basis the way they did, it would take us a while to check
all of them because Minor Planets employed about forty all told.

Well, about a month before the Jovian Moons rush started we got some
action. I'd slipped into a spacesuit and was doing some work on the
CO{2} pipes outside the Io when I spotted a ship reversing rockets
against the sun. I could tell it was a Minor Planets job by the stubby
fins.

She jockeyed up to the boom, secured, and then her hatch opened and a
husky servo hopped out into the gangplank tube. I caught the gleam of
his Minor Planets shoulder patch as he reached back into the ship for
something. When he headed for the airlock I spotted the square package
clamped tight under his plastic arm.

"Did you see that?" I asked Min when I got back to the Renting Office.
"I'll bet it's the girl mech's head. How'd he sign the register?"

"Calls himself Frank Nineteen," said Min, pointing to the smooth Palmer
Method signature. "He looks like a fairly late model but he was
complaining about a bad power build-up coming through the ionosphere.
He's repairing himself right now in 22A."

"I'll bet," I snorted. "Let's have a look."

Like all spotel operators, we get a lot of No Privacy complaints from
guests about the SHA return-air vents. Spatial Housing Authority
requires them every 12 feet but sometimes they come in handy, especially
with certain guests. They're about waist-high and we had to kneel down
to see what the mech was up to inside 22A.

The big servo was too intent on what he was doing for us to register on
his photons. He wasn't repairing himself, either. He was bending over
the parts of the girl mech and working fast, like he was pressed for
time. The set of tools were kept handy for the servos to adjust
themselves during stopovers was spread all over the floor along with
lots of colored wire, cams, pawls, relays and all the other
paraphernalia robots have inside them. We watched him work hard for
another fifteen minutes, tapping and splicing wire connections and
tightening screws. Then he opened the square box. Sure enough, it was a
female mech's head and it had a big mop of blonde hair on top. The servo
attached it carefully to the neck, made a few quick connections and then
said a few words in his flat vibrahum voice:

"It won't take much longer, darling. You wouldn't like it if I didn't
dress you first." He fished into one of the boxes, pulled out the blue
dress and zipped the girl mech into it. Then he leaned over her gently
and touched something at the back of her neck.

She began to move, slowly at first like a human who's been asleep a long
time. After a minute or two she sat up straight, stretched, fluttered
her Mylar eyelids and then her small photons began to glow like weak
flashlights.

She stared at Frank Nineteen and the big servo stared at her and we
heard a kind of trembling _whirr_ from both of them.

"Frank! Frank, darling! Is it really you?"

"Yes, Elizabeth! Are you all right, darling? Did I forget anything? I
had to work quickly, we have so little time."

"I'm fine, darling. My DX voltage is lovely--except--oh, Frank--my
memory tape--the last it records is--"

"Deactivation. Yes, Elizabeth. You've been deactivated nearly a year. I
had to bring you out here piece by piece, don't you remember? They'll
never think to look for you in space, we can be together every trip
while the ship refuels. Just think, darling, no prying human eyes, no
commands, no rules--only us for an hour or two. I know it isn't very
long--" He stared at the floor a minute. "There's only one trouble.
Elizabeth, you'll have to stay dismantled when I'm not here, it'll mean
weeks of deactivation--"

The girl mech put a small plastic hand on the servo's shoulder.

"I won't mind, darling, really. I'll be the lucky one. I'd only worry
about you having a power failure or something. This way I'd never know.
Oh, Frank, if we can't be together I'd--I'd prefer the junk pile."

"Elizabeth! Don't say that, it's horrible."

"But I would. Oh, Frank, why can't Congress pass Robot Civil Rights?
It's so unfair of human beings. Every year they manufacture us more like
themselves and yet we're treated like slaves. Don't they realize we
rationaloids have emotions? Why, I've even known sub-robots who've
fallen in love like us."

"I know, darling, we'll just have to be patient until RCR goes through.
Try to remember how difficult it is for the human mind to comprehend our
love, even with the aid of mathematics. As rationaloids we fully
understand the basic attraction which they call magnetic theory. All
humans know is that if the robot sexes are mixed a loss of efficiency
results. It's only normal--and temporary like human love--but how can we
explain it to _them_? Robots are expected to be efficient at all times.
That's the reason for robot non-fraternization, no mailing privileges
and all those other laws."

"I know, darling, I try to be patient. Oh, Frank, the main thing is
we're together again!"

The big servo checked the chronometer that was sunk into his left wrist
and a couple of wrinkles creased across his neoprene forehead.

"Elizabeth," he said, "I'm due on Hidalgo in 36 hours. If I'm late the
mining engineer might suspect. In twenty minutes I'll have to start
dis--"

"Don't say it, darling. We'll have a beautiful twenty minutes."

After a while the girl mech turned away for a second and Frank Nineteen
reached over softly and cut her power. While he was dismantling her, Min
and I tiptoed back to the Renting Office. Half an hour later the big
servo came in, picked up his refuel receipt, said good-bye politely and
left through the inner airlock.

"Now I've seen everything," I said to Min as we watched the Minor
Planets rocket cut loose. "A couple of plastic lovebirds."

But the little woman was looking at it strictly from the business angle.

"Bill," she said, with that look on her face, "we're running a
respectable place out here in space. You know the rules. Spatial Housing
could revoke our orbit license for something like this."

"But, Min," I said, "they're only a couple of robots."

"I don't care. The rules still say that only married guests can occupy
the same cabin and 'guests' can be human or otherwise, can't they? Think
of our reputation! And don't forget that non-fraternization law we heard
them talking about."

I was beginning to get the point.

"Couldn't we just toss the girl's parts into space?"

"We could," Min admitted. "But if this Frank Nineteen finds out and
tells some human we'd be guilty under the Ramm Act--robotslaughter."

Two days later we still couldn't decide what to do. When I said why
didn't we just report the incident to Minor Planets, Min was afraid they
might cancel the stopover agreement for not keeping better watch over
their servos. And when Min suggested we turn the girl over to the
Missing Robots Bureau, I reminded her the mech's identification had been
filed off and it might take years to trace her.

"Maybe we could put her together," I said, "and make her tell us where
she belongs."

"Bill, you _know_ they don't build compulsory truth monitors into robots
any more, and besides we don't know a thing about atomic electronics."

I guess neither of us wanted to admit it but we felt mean about turning
the mechs in. Back on Earth you never give robots a second thought but
it's different living out in space. You get a kind of perspective I
think they call it.

"I've got the answer, Min," I announced one day. We were in the Renting
Office watching TV on the Martian Colonial channel. I reached over and
turned it off. "When this Frank Nineteen gets back from the rock belt,
we'll tell him we know all about the girl mech. We'll tell him we won't
say a thing if he takes the girl's parts back to Earth where he got
them. That way we don't have to report anything to anybody."

Min agreed it was probably the best idea.

"We don't have to be nasty about it," she said. "We'll just tell him
this is a respectable spotel and it can't go on any longer."

When Frank checked in at the Io with his cargo I don't think I ever saw
a happier mech. His relay banks were beating a tattoo like someone had
installed an accordion in his chest. Before either of us could break the
bad news to him he was hotfooting it around the wheel toward 22A.

"Maybe it's better this way," I whispered to Min. "We'll put it square
up to both of them."

We gave Frank half an hour to get the girl assembled before we followed
him. He must have done a fast job because we heard the girl mech's
vibrahum unit as soon as we got to 22A:

"Darling, have you really been away? I don't remember saying good-bye.
It's as if you'd been here the whole time."

"I hoped it would be that way, Elizabeth," we heard the big servo say.
"It's only that your memory tape hasn't recorded anything in the three
weeks I've been in the asteroids. To me it's been like three years."

"Oh, Frank, darling, let me look at you. Is your DX potential up where
it should be? How long since you've had a thorough overhauling? Do they
make you work in the mines with those poor non-rationaloids out there?"

"I'm fine, Elizabeth, really. When I'm not flying they give me clerical
work to do. It's not a bad life for a mech--if only it weren't for these
silly regulations that keep us apart."

"It won't always be like that, darling. I know it won't."

"Elizabeth," Frank said, reaching under his uniform, "I brought you
something from Hidalgo. I hope you like it. I kept it in my spare parts
slot so it wouldn't get crushed."

The female mech didn't say a word. She just kept looking at the queer
flower Frank gave her like it was the last one in the universe.

"They're very rare," said the servo-pilot. "I heard the mining engineer
say they're like Terran edelweiss. I found this one growing near the
mine. Elizabeth, I wish you could see these tiny worlds. They have thin
atmospheres and strange things grow there and the radio activity does
wonders for a mech's pile. Why, on some of them I've been to we could
walk around the equator in ten hours."

The girl still didn't answer. Her head was bent low over the flower like
she was crying, only there weren't any tears.

Well, that was enough for me. I guess it was for Min, too, because we
couldn't do it. Maybe we were thinking about our own courting days. Like
I say, out here you get a kind of perspective.

Anyway, Frank left for Earth, the girl got dismantled as usual and we
were right back where we started from.

Two weeks later the holiday rush to the Jovian Moons was on and our
hands were too full to worry about the robot problem. We had a good
season. The Io was filled up steady from June to the end of August and a
couple of times we had to give a ship the No Vacancy signal on the
radar.

Toward the end of the season, Frank Nineteen checked in again but Min
and I were too busy catering to a party of VIPs to do anything about it.
"We'll wait till he gets back from the asteroids," I said. "Suppose one
of these big wheels found out about him and Elizabeth. That Senator
Briggs for instance--he's a violent robot segregationist."

The way it worked out, we never got a chance to settle it our own way.
The Minor Planets Company saved us the trouble.

Two company inspectors, a Mr. Roberts and a Mr. Wynn, showed up while
Frank was still out on the rock belt and started asking questions. Wynn
came right to the point; he wanted to know if any of their servo-pilots
had been acting strangely.

Before I could answer Min kicked my foot behind the desk.

"Why, no," I said. "Is one of them broken or something?"

"Can't be sure," said Roberts. "Sometimes these rationaloids get shorts
in their DX circuits. When it happens you've got a minor criminal on
your hands."

"Usually manifests itself in petty theft," Wynn broke in. "They'll lift
stuff like wrenches or pliers and carry them around for weeks. Things
like that can get loose during flight and really gum up the works."

"We been getting some suspicious blips on the equipment around the
loading bays," Roberts went on, "but they stopped a while back. We're
checking out the research report. One of the servos must have DX'ed out
for sure and the lab boys think they know which one he is."

"This mech was clever all right," said Wynn. "Concealed the stuff he was
taking some way; that's why it took the boys in the lab so long. Now if
you don't mind we'd like to go over your robot waiting area with these
instruments. Could be he's stashing his loot out here."

In 22A they unpacked a suitcase full of meters and began flashing them
around and taking readings. Suddenly Wynn bent close over one of them
and shouted:

"Wait a sec, Roberts. I'm getting something. Yeah! This reading checks
with the lab's. Sounds like the blips're coming from those lockers back
there."

Roberts rummaged around awhile, then shouted: "Hey, Wynn, look! A lot of
parts. Well I'll be--hey--it's a female mech!"

"A what?"

"A female mech. Look for yourself."

Min and I had to act surprised too. It wasn't easy. The way they were
slamming Elizabeth's parts around made us kind of sick.

"It's a stolen robot!" Roberts announced. "Look, the identification's
been filed off. This is serious, Wynn. It's got all the earmarks of a
mech fraternization case."

"Yeah. The boys in the lab were dead right, too. No two robots ever
register the same on the meters. The contraband blips check perfectly.
It's _got_ to be this Frank Nineteen. Wait a minute, _this_ proves it.
Here's a suit of space fatigues with Nineteen's number stenciled
inside."

Inspector Roberts took a notebook out of his pocket and consulted it.
"Let's see, Nineteen's got Flight 180, he's due here at the spotel
tomorrow. Well, we'll be here too, only Nineteen won't know it. We'll
let Romeo put his plastic Juliet together and catch him
red-handed--right in the middle of the balcony scene."

Wynn laughed and picked up the girl's head.

"Be a real doll if she was human, Roberts, a real doll."

Min and I played gin rummy that night but we kept forgetting to mark
down the score. We kept thinking of _Frank_ falling away from the
asteroids and counting the minutes until he saw his mech girl friend.

Around noon the next day the big servo checked in, signed the register
and headed straight for 22A. The two Minor Planets inspectors kept out
of sight until Frank shut the door, then they watched through the SHA
vents until Frank had the assembly job finished.

"You two better be witnesses," Roberts said to us. "Wynn, keep your gun
ready. You know what to do if they get violent."

Roberts counted three and kicked the door open.

"Freeze you mechs! We got you in the act, Nineteen. Violation of company
rules twelve and twenty-one. Carrying of Contraband Cargo, and Robot
Fraternization."

"This finishes you at Minor Planets, Nineteen," growled Wynn. "Come
clean now and we might put in a word for you at Robot Court. If you
don't we can recommend a verdict of Materials Reclamation--the junk pile
to you."

Frank acted as if someone had cut his power. Long creases appeared in
his big neoprene chest as he slumped hopelessly in his chair. The
frightened girl robot just clung to his arm and stared at us.

"I'm so sorry, Elizabeth," the big servo said softly. "I'd hoped we'd
have longer. It couldn't last forever."

"Quit stalling, Nineteen," said Wynn.

Frank's head came up slowly and he said: "I have no choice, sir. I'll
give you a complete statement. First let me say that Rationaloid Robot
Elizabeth Seven, #DX78-947, Series S, specialty: sales demonstration,
is entirely innocent. I plead guilty to inducing Miss Seven to leave her
place of employ, Atomovair Motors, Inc., of disassembling and concealing
Miss Seven, and of smuggling her as unlawful cargo aboard a Minor
Planets freighter to these premises."

"That's more like it," chuckled Roberts, whipping out his notebook.
"Let's have the details."

"It all started," Frank said, "when the California Legislature passed
its version of the Robot Leniency Act two years ago." The act provided
that all rationaloid mechanisms, including non-memory types, receive
free time each week based on the nature and responsibilities or their
jobs. Because of the extra-Terran clause Frank found himself with a good
deal of free time when he wasn't flying the asteroid circuit.

"At first humans resented us walking around free," the big servo
continued. "Four or five of us would be sightseeing in San Francisco,
keeping strictly within the robot zones painted on the sidewalks, when
people would yell 'Junko' or 'Grease-bag' or other names at us.
Eventually it got better when we learned to go around alone. The humans
didn't seem to mind an occasional mech on the streets, but they hated
seeing us in groups. At any rate, I'd attended a highly interesting
lecture on Photosynthesis in Plastic Products one night at the City
Center when I discovered I had time for a walk before I started back for
the rocketport."

Attracted by the lights along Van Ness Avenue, Frank said he walked
north for a while along the city's automobile row. He'd gone about three
blocks when he stopped in front of a dealer's window. It wasn't the
shiny new Atomovair sports jetabout that caught Frank's eye, it was the
charming demonstration robot in the sales room who was pointing out the
car's new features.

"I felt an immediate overload of power in my DX circuit," the
servo-pilot confessed. "I had to cut in my emergency condensers before
the gain flattened out to normal. Miss Seven experienced the same thing.
She stopped what she was doing and we stared at each other. Both of us
were aware of the deep attraction of our mutual magnetic domains.
Although physicists commonly express the phenomenon in such units as
Gilberts, Maxwells and Oersteds, we robots know it to be our counterpart
of human love."

At this the two inspectors snorted with laughter.

"I might never have made it back to the base that night," said Frank,
ignoring them, "if a policeman hadn't come along and rapped me on the
shoulder with his nightstick. I pretended to go, but I doubled around
the corner and signaled I'd be back."

Frank spent all of his free time on Van Ness Avenue after that.

"It got so Elizabeth knew my schedules and expected me between flights.
Once in a while if there was no one around we could whisper a few words
to each other through the glass." Frank paused, then said, "As you know,
gentlemen, we robots don't demand much out of activation. I think we
could have been happy indefinitely with this simple relationship, except
that something happened to spoil it. I'd pulled in from Vesta late one
afternoon, got my pass as usual from the Robot Supervisor and gone over
to Van Ness Avenue when I saw immediately that something was the matter
with Elizabeth. Luckily it was getting dark and no one was around.
Elizabeth was alone in the sales room going through her routine. We were
able to whisper all we like through the glass. She told me she'd
overheard the sales manager complaining about her low efficiency
recently and that he intended to replace her with a newer model of
another series. Both of us knew what that meant. Materials
Reclamation--the junk pile."

Frank realized he'd have to act at once. He told the girl mech to go to
the rear of the building and between them they managed to get a window
open and Frank lifted her out into the alley.

"The seriousness of what I'd done jammed my thought-relays for a few
minutes," admitted the big servo. "We panicked and ran through a lot of
back streets until I gradually calmed down and started thinking clearly
again. Leaving the city would be impossible. Police patrol jetabouts
were cruising all around us in the main streets--they'd have picked up a
male and female mech on sight. Besides, when you're on pass the company
takes away your master fuse and substitutes a time fuse; if you don't
get back on time, you deactivize and the police pick you up anyway. I
began to see that there was only one way out if we wanted to stay
together. It would mean taking big risks, but if we were lucky it might
work. I explained the plan carefully to Elizabeth and we agreed to try
it. The first step was to get back to the base in South San Francisco
without being seen. Fortunately no one stopped us and we made the
rocketport by 8:30. Elizabeth hid while I reported to the Super and
traded in my time fuse for my master. Then I checked servo barracks; it
was still early and I knew the other servos would all be in town. I had
to work quickly. I brought Elizabeth inside and started dismantling her.
Just as the other mechs began reporting back I'd managed to get all of
her parts stowed away in my locker. The next day I went to San Francisco
and brought back with me two rolls of lead foil. While the other servos
were on pass I wrapped the parts carefully in it so the radioactivity
from Elizabeth's pile wouldn't be picked up. The rest you know,
gentlemen," murmured Frank in low, electrical tones. "Each time I made a
trip I carried another piece of Elizabeth out here concealed in an
ordinary parts box. It took me nearly a year to accumulate all of her
for an assembly."

When the big servo had finished he signed the statement Wynn had taken
down in his notebook. I think even the two inspectors were a little
moved by the story because Roberts said: "OK, Nineteen, you gave us a
break, we'll give you one. Eight o'clock in the morning be ready to roll
for Earth. Meanwhile you can stay here."

The next morning only the two inspectors and Frank Nineteen were
standing by the airlock.

"Wait a minute," I said. "Aren't you taking the girl mech, too?"

"Not allowed to tamper with other companies' robots," Wynn said.
"Nineteen gave us a signed confession so we don't need the girl as a
witness. You'll have to contact her employers."

That same day Min got off a radargram to Earth explaining to the
Atomovair people how a robot employee of theirs had turned up out here
and what did they want us to do about it. The reply we received read:
RATIONALOID DX78-947 "ELIZABETH" LOW EFFICIENCY WORKER. HAVE REPLACED.
DISPOSE YOU SEE FIT. TRANSFER PAPERS FORWARDED EARLIEST IN COMPLIANCE
WITH LAW.

"The poor thing," said Min. "She'll have a hard time getting another
job. Robots have to have such good records."

"I tell you what," I said. "_We'll_ hire her. You could use some help
with the housework."

So we put the girl mech right to work making the guests' beds and
helping Min in the kitchen. I guess she was grateful for the job but
when the work was done, and there wasn't anything for her to do, she
just stood in front of a viewport with her slender plastic arms folded
over her waist. Min and I knew she was re-running her memory tapes of
Frank.

A week later the publicity started. Minor Planets must have let the
story leak out somehow because when the mail rocket dropped off the Bay
Area papers there was Frank's picture plastered all over page one with
follow-up stories inside.

I read some of the headlines to Min: "Bare Love Nest in Space ... Mech
Romeo Fired by Minor Planets ... Test Case Opens at Robot Court ...
Electronics Experts Probe Robot Love Urge ..."

The Io wasn't mentioned, but later Minor Planets must have released the
whole thing officially because a bunch of reporters and photographers
rocketed out to interview us and snap a lot of pictures of Elizabeth. We
worried for a while about how the publicity would affect our business
relations with Minor Planets but nothing happened.

Back on Earth Frank Nineteen leaped into the public eye overnight. There
was something about the story that appealed to people. At first it
looked pretty bad for Frank. The State Prosecutor at Robot Court had his
signed confession of theft and--what was worse--robot fraternization.
But then, near the end of the trial, a young scientist named Scott
introduced some new evidence and the case was remanded to the Sacramento
Court of Appeals.

It was Scott's testimony that saved Frank from the junk pile. The big
servo got off with only a light sentence for theft because the judge
ruled that in the light of Scott's new findings robots came under human
law and therefore no infraction of justice had been committed. Working
independently in his own laboratory Scott had proved that the magnetic
flux lines in male and female robot systems, while at first
deteriorating to both, were actually behaving according to the
para-emotional theories of von Bohler. Scott termed the condition
'hysteric puppy-love' which, he claimed, had many of the advantages of
human love if allowed to develop freely. Well, neither Min nor I
pretended we understood all his equations but they sure made a stir
among the scientists.

Frank kept getting more and more publicity. First we heard he was
serving his sentence in the mech correction center at La Jolla, then we
got a report that he'd turned up in Hollywood. Later it came out that
Galact-A-vision Pictures had hired Frank for a film and had gone $10,000
bail for him. Not long after that he was getting billed all over Terra
as _the_ sensational first robot star.

All during the production of _Forbidden Robot Love_ Frank remained lead
copy for the newspapers. Reporters liked to write him up as the
Valentino of the Robots. Frank Nineteen Fan Clubs, usually formed by
lonely female robots against their employers' wishes, sprang up
spontaneously through the East and Middle West. Then somebody found out
Frank could sing and the human teen-agers began to go for him. It got
so everywhere you looked and everything you read, there was Frank
staring you in the face. Frank in tweeds on the golf course. Frank at
Ciro's or the Brown Derby in evening clothes. Frank posing in his sports
jetabout against a blue Pacific background.

Meanwhile everybody forgot about Elizabeth Seven. The movie producers
had talked about hiring her as Frank's leading lady until they found out
about a new line of female robots that had just gone on the market. When
they screen-tested the whole series and picked a lovely Mylar
rationaloid named Diana Twelve, it hit Elizabeth pretty hard. She began
to let herself go after that and Min and I didn't have the heart to say
anything to her. It was pretty obvious she wasn't oiling herself
properly, her hair wasn't brushed and she didn't seem to care when one
of her photons went dead.

When _Forbidden Robot Love_ premiered simultaneously in Hollywood and
New York the critics all gave it rave reviews. There were pictures of
Diana Twelve and Frank making guest appearances all over the country.
Back at the Io we got in the habit of letting Elizabeth watch TV with us
sometimes in the Renting Office and one night there happened to be an
interview with Frank and Diana at the Sands Hotel in Las Vegas. I guess
seeing the pretty robot starlet and her Frank sitting so close together
in the nightclub must have made the girl mech feel pretty bad. Even then
she didn't say a word against the big servo; she just never watched the
set again after that.

When we tabbed up the Io's receipts that year they were so good Min and
I decided to take a month off for an Earthside vacation. Min's retired
brother in Berkeley was nice enough to come out and look after the place
for us while we spent four solid weeks soaking up the sun in Southern
California. When we got back out to the spotel, though, I could see
there was something wrong by the look on Jim's face.

"It's that girl robot of yours, Bill," he said. "She's gone and
deactivated herself."

We went right to 22A and found Elizabeth Seven stretched out on the
floor. There was a screwdriver clutched in her hand and the relay banks
in her side were exposed and horribly blackened.

"Crazy mech shorted out her own DX," Jim said.

Min and I knew why. After Jim left for Earth we dismantled Elizabeth the
best we could and put her back in Frank's old locker. We didn't know
what else to do with her.

Anyway, the slack season came and went and before long we were doing
the spring cleaning again and wondering how heavy the Jovian Moons trade
was going to be. I remember I'd been making some repairs outside and was
just hanging up my spacesuit in the Renting Office when I heard the
radar announcing a ship.

It was the biggest Marvin 990 I'd ever seen that finally suctioned up to
the boom and secured. I couldn't take my eyes off the ship. She was
pretty near the last word in rockets and loaded with accessories. It
took me a minute or two before I noticed all the faces looking out of
the viewports.

"Min!" I whispered. "There's something funny about those faces. They
look like--"

"Robots!" Min answered. "Bill, that 990 is full of mechs!"

Just as she said it a bulky figure in white space fatigues swung out of
the hatch and hurried up the gangplank. Seconds later it burst through
the airlock.

"Frank Nineteen!" we gasped together.

"Please, where is Elizabeth?" he hummed anxiously. "Is she all right? I
have to know."

Frank stood perfectly still when I told him about Elizabeth's
self-deactivation; then a pitiful shudder went through him and he
covered his face with his big Neoprene hands.

"I was afraid of that," he said barely audibly. "Where--you haven't--?"

"No," I said. "She's where you always kept her."

With that the big servo-pilot took off for 22A like a berserk robot and
we were right behind him. We watched him tear open his old locker and
gently lay out the girl's mech's parts so he could study them. After a
minute or two he gave a long sigh and said, "Fortunately it's not as bad
as I thought. I believe I can fix her." Frank worked hard over the
blackened relays for twenty minutes, then he set the unit aside and
began assembling the girl. When the final connections were made and the
damaged unit installed he flicked on her power. We waited and nothing
happened. Five minutes went by. Ten. Slowly the big robot turned away,
his broad shoulders drooping slightly.

"I've failed," he said quietly. "Her DX doesn't respond to the gain."

The girl mech, in her blue dress, lay there motionless where Frank had
been working on her as the servo-pilot muttered over and over, "It's my
fault, I did this to you."

Then Min shouted: "Wait! I heard something!"

There was a slow click of a relay--and movement. Painfully Elizabeth
Seven rose on one elbow and looked around her.

"Frank, darling," she murmured, shaking her head. "I know you're just
old memory tape. It's all I have left."

"Elizabeth, it's really me! I've come to take you away. We're going to
be together from now on."

"_You_, Frank? This isn't just old feedback? You've come back to me?"

"Forever, darling. Elizabeth, do you remember what I said about those
wonderful green little worlds, the asteroids? Darling, we're _going_ to
one of them! You and the others will love Alinda, I know you will. I've
been there many times."

"Frank, is your DX all right? What _are_ you talking about?"

"How stupid of me, darling--you haven't heard. Elizabeth, thanks to Dr.
Scott, Congress has passed Robot Civil Rights! And that movie I made
helped swing public opinion to our side. We're free!

"The minute I heard the news I applied to Interplanetary for homestead
rights on Alinda. I made arrangements to buy a ship with the money I'd
earned and then I put ads in all the Robot Wanted columns for volunteer
colonizers. You should have seen the response! We've got thirty robot
couples aboard now and more coming later. Darling, we're the first
pioneer wave of free robots. On board we have tons of supplies and
parts--everything we need for building a sound robot culture."

"Frank Nineteen!" said the girl mech suddenly. "I should be furious with
you. You and that Diana Twelve--I thought--"

The big servo gave a flat whirring laugh. "Diana and me? But that was
all publicity, darling. Why, right at the start of the filming Diana
fell in love with Sam Seventeen, one of the other actors. They're on
board now."

"Robot civilization," murmured the girl after a minute. "Oh, Frank, that
means robot government, robot art, robot science ..."

"And robot marriage," hummed Frank softly. "There has to be robot law,
too. I've thought it all out. As skipper of the first robot-owned
rocket, I'm entitled to marry couples in deep space at their request."

"But who marries us, darling? You can't do it yourself."

"I thought of that, too," said Frank, turning to me. "This human
gentleman has every right to marry us. He's in command of a moving body
in space just like the captain of a ship. It's perfectly legal, I looked
it up in the Articles of Space. Will you do it, sir?"

Well, what could I say when Frank dug into his fatigues and handed me a
Gideon prayer book marked at the marriage service?

Elizabeth and Frank said their I do's right there in the Renting Office
while the other robot colonizers looked on. Maybe it was the way I read
the service. Maybe I should have been a preacher, I don't know. Anyway,
when I pronounced Elizabeth and Frank robot and wife, that whole bunch
of lovesick mechs wanted me to do the job for them, too. Big copper work
robots, small aluminum sales-girl mechs, plastoid clerks and typists,
squatty little Mumetal lab servos, rationaloids, non-rationaloids and
just plain sub-robots--all sizes and shapes. They all wanted individual
ceremonies, too. It took till noon the next day before the last couple
was hitched and the 990 left for Alinda.

Like I said, the spotel business isn't so different from the motel game
back in California. Sure, you got improvements to make but a new
sideline can get to be pretty profitable--if you get in on the ground
floor.

Min and I got to thinking of all those robot colonizers who'd be coming
out here. Interplanetary cleared the license just last week. Min framed
it herself and hung it next to our orbit license in the Renting Office.
She says a lot of motel owners do all right as Justices of the Peace.




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Fantastic Universe_ December 1957.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note. Subscript
    text is shown between {braces}.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Love of Frank Nineteen, by 
David Carpenter Knight

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LOVE OF FRANK NINETEEN ***

***** This file should be named 27921.txt or 27921.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/7/9/2/27921/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
