Project Gutenberg's They Twinkled Like Jewels, by Philip José Farmer

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: They Twinkled Like Jewels

Author: Philip José Farmer

Release Date: August 1, 2009 [EBook #29559]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THEY TWINKLED LIKE JEWELS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









    _It was only a year and a half ago that Phil Farmer, till then a
    totally unknown (editorially speaking at any rate) young man of
    Peoria, wrote himself a novel that won him instantaneous acclaim as
    perhaps the hottest new science fiction writer currently astir. Its
    title was "The Lovers" and since then he has gone right on proving
    himself a top-hand craftsman._


     they
 twinkled
     like
   jewels

 _by ... Philip José Farmer_


 Crane didn't get the nice man's name--until it
 was far too late to do anything at all about it.


Jack Crane lay all morning in the vacant lot. Now and then he moved a
little to quiet the protest of cramped muscles and stagnant blood, but
most of the time he was as motionless as the heap of rags he resembled.
Not once did he hear or see a Bohas agent, or, for that matter, anyone.
The predawn darkness had hidden his panting flight from the transie
jungle, his dodging across backyards while whistles shrilled and voices
shouted, and his crawling on hands and knees down an alley into the high
grass and bushes which fringed a hidden garden.

For a while his heart had knocked so loudly that he had been sure he
would not be able to hear his pursuers if they did get close. It seemed
inevitable that they would track him down. A buddy had told him that a
new camp had just been built at a place only three hours drive away from
the town. This meant that Bohas would be thick as hornets in the
neighborhood. But no black uniforms had so far appeared. And then, lying
there while the passionate and untiring sun mounted the sky, the
bang-bang of his heart was replaced by a noiseless but painful movement
in his stomach.

He munched a candy bar and two dried rolls which a housewife had given
him the evening before. The tiger in his belly quit pacing back and
forth; it crouched and licked its chops, but its tail was stuck up in
his throat. Jack could feel the dry fur swabbing his pharynx and mouth.
He suffered, but he was used to that. Night would come as surely as
anything did. He'd get a drink then to quench his thirst.

Boredom began to sit on his eyelids. Just as he was about to accept some
much needed sleep, he moved a leaf with an accidental jerk of his hand
and uncovered a caterpillar. It was dark except for a row of yellow
spots along the central line of some of its segments. As soon as it was
exposed, it began slowly shimmying away. Before it had gone two feet, it
was crossed by a moving shadow. Guiding the shadow was a black wasp with
an orange ring around the abdomen. It closed the gap between itself and
the worm with a swift, smooth movement and straddled the dark body.

Before the wasp could grasp the thick neck with its mandibles, the
intended victim began rapidly rolling and unrolling and flinging itself
from side to side. For a minute the delicate dancer above it could not
succeed in clenching the neck. Its sharp jaws slid off the frenziedly
jerking skin until the tiring creature paused for the chip of a second.

Seizing opportunity and larva at the same time, the wasp stood high on
its legs and pulled the worm's front end from the ground, exposing the
yellowed band of the underpart. The attacker's abdomen curved beneath
its own body; the stinger jabbed between two segments of the prey's
jointed length. Instantly, the writhing stilled. A shudder, and the
caterpillar became as inert as if it were dead.

Jack had watched with an eye not completely clinical, feeling the
sympathy of the hunted and the hounded for a fellow. His own struggles
of the past few months had been as desperate, though not as hopeless,
and ...

He stopped thinking. His heart again took up the rib-thudding. Out of
the corner of his left eye he had seen a shadow that fell across the
garden. When he slowly turned his head to follow the stain upon the
sun-splashed soil, he saw that it clung to a pair of shining black
boots.

Jack did not say anything. What was the use? He put his hands against
the weeds and pushed his body up. He looked into the silent mouth of a
.38 automatic. It told him his running days were over. You didn't talk
back to a mouth like that.


II

Jack was lucky. As one of the last to be herded into the truck, which
had been once used for hauling cattle, he had more room to breathe than
most of the others. He faced the rear bars. The vehicle was heading into
the sun. Its rays were not as hard on him as on some of those who were
so jam-packed they could not turn to get the hot yellow splotch out of
their eyes.

He looked through lowered lids at the youths on either side of him. For
the last three days in the transie jungle, the one standing on his left
had given signs of what was coming upon him, what had come upon so many
of the transies. The muttering, the indifference to food, not hearing
you when you talked to him. And now the shock of being caught in the
raid had speeded up what everybody had foreseen. He was hardened, like a
concrete statue, into a half-crouch. His arms were held in front of him
like a praying mantis', and his hands clutched a bar. Not even the
pressure of the crowd could break his posture.

The man on Jack's right murmured something, but the roaring of motor and
clashing of gears shifting on a hill squashed his voice. He spoke
louder:

"_Cerea flexibilitas_. Extreme catatonic state. The fate of all of us."

"You're nuts," said Jack. "Not me. I'm no schizo, and I'm not going to
become one."

As there was no reply, Jack decided he had not moved his lips enough to
be heard clearly. Lately, even when it was quiet, people seemed to have
trouble making out what he was saying. It made him mildly angry.

He shouted. It did not matter if he were overheard. That any of the
prisoners were agents of the Bureau of Health and Sanity didn't seem
likely. Anyway, he didn't care. They wouldn't do anything to him they
hadn't planned before this.

"Got any idea where we're going?"

"Sure. F.M.R.C. 3. Federal Male Rehabilitation Camp No. 3. I spent two
weeks in the hills spying on it."

Jack looked the speaker over. Like all those in the truck, he wore a
frayed shirt, a stained and torn coat, and greasy, dirty trousers. The
black bristles on his face were long; the back of his neck was covered
by thick curls. The brim of his dusty hat was pulled down low. Beneath
its shadow his eyes roamed from side to side with the same fear that
Jack knew was in his own eyes.

Hunger and sleepless nights had knobbed his cheekbones and honed his
chin to a sharp point. An almost visible air clung to him, a hot aura
that seemed to result from veins full of lava and eyeballs spilling out
a heat that could not be held within him. He had the face every transie
had, the face of a man who was either burning with fever or who had seen
a vision.

Jack looked away to stare miserably at the dust boiling up behind the
wheels, as if he could see projected against its yellow-brown screen his
retreating past.

He spoke out of the side of his mouth. "What's happened to us? We should
be happy and working at good jobs and sure about the future. We
shouldn't be just bums, hobos, walkers of the streets, rod-hoppers,
beggars, and thieves."

His friend shrugged and looked uneasily from the corners of his eyes. He
was probably expecting the question they all asked sooner or later: _Why
are_ you _on the road?_ They asked, but none replied with words that
meant anything. They lied, and they didn't seem to take any pleasure in
their lying. When they asked questions themselves, they knew they
wouldn't get the truth. But something forced them to keep on trying
anyway.

Jack's buddy evaded also. He said, "I read a magazine article by a Dr.
Vespa, the head of the Bureau of Health and Sanity. He'd written the
article just after the President created the Bureau. He viewed, quote,
with alarm and apprehension, unquote, the fact that six percent of those
between the ages of twelve and twenty-five were schizophrenics who
needed institutionalizing. And he was, quote, appalled and horrified,
unquote, that five percent of the nation were homeless unemployed and
that three point seven percent of those were between the ages of
fourteen and thirty. He said that if this schizophrenia kept on
progressing, half the world would be in rehabilitation camps. But if
that occurred, the sane half would go to pot. Back to the stone age. And
the schizos would die."

       *       *       *       *       *

He licked his lips as if he were tasting the figures and found them
bitter.

"I was very interested by Vespa's reply to a mother who had written
him," he went on. "Her daughter ended up in a Bohas camp for schizos,
and her son had left his wonderful home and brilliant future to become a
bum. She wanted to know why. Vespa took six long paragraphs to give six
explanations, all equally valid and all advanced by equally
distinguished sociologists. He himself favored the mass hysteria theory.
But if you looked at his gobbledegook closely, you could reduce it to
one phrase, _We don't know_.

"He did say this--though you won't like it--that the schizos and the
transies were just two sides of the same coin. Both were infected with
the same disease, whatever it was. And the transies usually ended up as
schizos anyway. It just took them longer."

Gears shifted. The floor slanted. Jack was shoved hard against the rear
boards by the weight of the other men. He didn't answer until the
pressure had eased and his ribs were free to work for more than mere
survival.

He said, "You're way off, schizo. My hitting the road has nothing to do
with those split-heads. Nothing, you understand? There's nothing foggy
or dreamy about me. I wouldn't be here with you guys if I hadn't been so
interested in a wasp catching a caterpillar that I never saw the Bohas
sneaking up on me."

While Jack described the little tragedy, the other allowed an
understanding smile to bend his lips. He seemed engrossed, however, and
when Jack had finished, he said:

"That was probably an ammophila wasp. _Sphex urnaria_ Klug. Lovely, but
vicious, little she-demon. Injects the poison from her sting into the
caterpillar's central nerve cord. That not only paralyzes but preserves
it. The victim is always stowed away with another one in an underground
burrow. The wasp attaches one of her eggs to the body of a worm. When
the egg hatches, the grub eats both of the worms. They're alive, but
they're completely helpless to resist while their guts are gnawed away.
Beautiful idea, isn't it?

"It's a habit common to many of those little devils: _Sceliphron
cementarium_, _Eumenes coarcta_, _Eumenes fraterna_, _Bembix spinolae_,
_Pelopoeus_ ..."

Jack's interest wandered. His informant was evidently one of those
transies who spent long hours in the libraries. They were ready at the
slightest chance to offer their encyclopaedic but often useless
knowledge. Jack himself had abandoned his childhood bookwormishness. For
the last three years his days and evenings had worn themselves out on
the streets, passed in a parade of faces, flickered by in plate-glass
windows of restaurants and department stores and business offices, while
he hoped, hoped....

"Did you say you spied on the camp?" Jack interrupted the sonorous,
almost chanting flow of Greek and Latin.

"Huh? Oh, yeah. For two weeks. I saw plenty of transies trucked in, but
I never saw any taken out. Maybe they left in the rocket."

"Rocket?"

The youth was looking straight before him. His face was hard as bone,
but his voice trembled.

"Yes. A big one. It landed and discharged about a dozen men."

"You nuts? There's been only one man-carrying rocket invented, and it
lands by parachute."

"I saw it, I tell you. And I'm not so nutty I'm seeing things that
aren't there. Not yet, anyway!"

"Maybe the government's got rockets it's not telling anybody about."

"Then what connection could there be between rehabilitation camps and
rockets?"

Jack shrugged and said, "Your rocket story is fantastic."

"If somebody had told you four years ago that you'd be a bum hauled off
to a concentration camp, you'd have said that was fantastic too."

Jack did not have time to reply. The truck stopped outside a high,
barbed wire fence. The gate swung open; the truck bounced down the bumpy
dirt road. Jack saw some black-uniformed Bohas seated by heavy machine
guns. They halted at another entrance; more barbed wire was passed. Huge
Dobermann pinschers looked at the transies with cold, steady eyes. The
dust of another section of road swirled up before they squeaked to a
standstill and the engine turned off.

This time, agents began to let down the back of the truck. They had to
pry the pitiful schizo's fingers loose from the wood with a crow-bar and
carry him off, still in his half-crouch.

A sergeant boomed orders. Stiff and stumbling, the transies jumped off
the truck. They were swiftly lined up into squads and marched into the
enclosure and from there into a huge black barracks. Within an hour each
man was stripped, had his head shaven, was showered, given a grey
uniform, and handed a tin plate and spoon and cup filled with beans and
bread and hot coffee.

Afterwards, Jack wandered around, free to look at the sandy soil
underfoot and barbed wire and the black uniforms of the sentries, and
free to ask himself where, where, wherewherewhere? Twelve years ago it
had been, but where, where, where, was...?


III

How easy it would have been to miss all this, if only he had obeyed his
father. But Mr. Crane was so ineffectual....

"Jackie," he had said, "would you please go outside and play, or stay in
some other room. It's very difficult to discuss business while you're
whooping and screaming around, and I have a lot to discuss with Mr.--"

"Yes, Daddy," Jack said before his father mentioned his visitor's name.
But he was not Jack Crane in his game; he was Uncas. The big chairs and
the divan were trees in his imaginative eyes. The huge easy chair in
which Daddy's caller (Jack thought of him only as "Mister") sat was a
fallen log. He, Uncas, meant to hide behind it in ambush.

Mister did not bother him. He had smiled and said in a shrill voice that
he thought Jack was a very nice boy. He wore a light grey-green Palm
Beach suit and carried a big brown leather briefcase that looked too
heavy for his soda straw-thin legs and arms. He was queer-looking
because his waist was so narrow and his back so humped. And when he took
off his tan Panama hat, a white fuzz exploded from his scalp. His face
was pale as the moon in daylight. His broad smile showed teeth that Jack
knew were false.

But the queerest thing about him was his thick spectacles, so heavily
tinted with rose that Jack could not see the eyes behind them. The
afternoon light seemed to bounce off the lenses in such a manner that no
matter what angle you looked at them, you could not pierce them. And
they curved to hide the sides of his eyes completely.

Mister had explained that he was an albino, and he needed the glasses to
dim the glare on his eyes. Jack stopped being Uncas for a minute to
listen. He had never seen an albino before, and, indeed, he did not know
what one was.

"I don't mind the youngster," said Mister. "Let him play here if he
wants to. He's developing his imagination, and he may be finding more
stimuli in this front room than he could in all of outdoors. We should
never cripple the fine gift of imagination in the young. Imagination,
fancy, fantasy--or whatever you call it--is the essence and mainspring
of those scientists, musicians, painters, and poets who amount to
something in later life. They are adults who have remained youths."

Mister addressed Jack, "You're the Last of the Mohicans, and you're
about to sneak up on the French captain and tomahawk him, aren't you?"

Jack blinked. He nodded his head. The opaque rose lenses set in Mister's
face seemed to open a door into his naked grey skull.

The man said, "I want you to listen to me, Jack. You'll forget my name,
which isn't important. But you will always remember me and my visit,
won't you?"

Jack stared at the impenetrable lenses and nodded dumbly.

Mister turned to Jack's father. "Let his fancy grow. It is a necessary
wish-fulfillment play. Like all human young who are good for anything at
all, he is trying to find the lost door to the Garden of Eden. The
history of the great poets and men-of-action is the history of the
attempt to return to the realm that Adam lost, the forgotten Hesperides
of the mind, the Avalon buried in our soul."

Mr. Crane put his fingertips together. "Yes?"

"Personally, I think that some day man will realize just what he is
searching for and will invent a machine that will enable the child to
project, just as a film throws an image on a screen, the visions in his
psyche.

"I see you're interested," he continued. "You would be, naturally, since
you're a professor of philosophy. Now, let's call the toy a
specterscope, because through it the subject sees the spectres that
haunt his unconscious. Ha! Ha! But how does it work? If you'll keep it
to yourself, Mr. Crane, I'll tell you something: My native country's
scientists have developed a rather simple device, though they haven't
published anything about it in the scientific journals. Let me give you
a brief explanation: Light strikes the retina of the eye; the rods and
cones pass on impulses to the bipolar cells, which send them on to the
optic nerve, which goes to the brain ..."

"Elementary and full of gaps," said Jack's father.

"Pardon me," said Mister. "A bare outline should be enough. You'll be
able to fill in the details. Very well. This specterscope breaks up the
light going into the eye in such a manner that the rods and cones
receive only a certain wavelength. I can't tell you what it is, except
that it's in the visual red. The scope also concentrates like a
burning-glass and magnifies the power of the light.

"Result? A hitherto-undiscovered chemical in the visual purple of the
rods is activated and stimulates the optic nerve in a way we had not
guessed possible. An electrochemical stimulus then irritates the
subconscious until it fully wakes up.

"Let me put it this way. The subconscious is not a matter of location
but of organization. There are billions of possible connections between
the neurons of the cortex. Look at those potentialities as so many cards
in the same pack. Shuffle the cards one way and you have the common
workaday _cogito, ergo sum_ mind. Reshuffle them, and, bingo! you have
the combination of neurons, or cards, of the unconscious. The
specterscope does the redealing. When the subject gazes through it, he
sees for the first time the full impact and result of his underground
mind's workings in other perspectives than dreams or symbolical
behavior. The subjective Garden of Eden is resurrected. It is my
contention that this specterscope will some day be available to all
children.

"When that happens, Mr. Crane, you will understand that the world will
profit from man's secret wishes. Earth will be a far better place.
Paradise, sunken deep in every man, can be dredged out and set up
again."

"I don't know," said Jack's father, stroking his chin thoughtfully with
a finger. "Children like my son are too introverted as it is. Give them
this psychological toy you suggest, and you would watch them grow, not
into the outside world, but into themselves. They would fester. Man has
been expelled from the Garden. His history is a long, painful climb
toward something different. It is something that is probably better than
the soft and flabby Golden Age. If man were to return, he would regress,
become worse than static, become infantile or even embryonic. He would
be smothered in the folds of his own dreams."

"Perhaps," said the salesman. "But I think you have a very unusual child
here. He will go much farther than you may think. Why? Because he is
sensitive and has an imagination that only needs the proper guidance.
Too many children become mere bourgeois ciphers with paunches and round
'O' minds full of tripe. They'll stay on earth. That is, I mean they'll
be stuck in the mud."

"You talk like no insurance salesman I've ever met."

"Like all those who really want to sell, I'm a born psychologist,"
Mister shrilled. "Actually, I have an advantage. I have a Ph.D. in
psychology. I would prefer staying at home for laboratory work, but
since I can help my starving children--I am not joking--so much more by
coming to a foreign land and working at something that will put food in
their mouths, I do it. I can't stand to see my little ones go hungry.
Moreover," he said with a wave of his long-fingered hand, "this whole
planet is really a lab that beats anything within four walls."

"You spoke of famine. Your accent--your name. You're a Greek, aren't
you?"

"In a way," said Mister. "My name, translated, means gracious or kindly
or well-meaning." His voice became brisker. "The translation is apropos.
I'm here to do you a service. Now, about these monthly premiums ..."

Jack shook himself and stepped out of the mold of fascination that
Mister's glasses seemed to have poured around him. Uncas again, he
crawled on all fours from chair to divan to stool to the fallen log
which the adults thought was an easy chair. He stuck his head from
behind it and sighted along the broomstick-musket at his father. He'd
shoot that white man dead and then take his scalp. He giggled at that,
because his father really didn't have any hairlock to take.

At that moment Mister decided to take off his specs and polish them with
his breast-pocket handkerchief. While he answered one of Mr. Crane's
questions, he let them dangle from his fingers. Accidentally, the lenses
were level with Jack's gaze. One careless glance was enough to jerk his
eyes back to them. One glance stunned him so that he could not at once
understand that what he was seeing was not reality.

There was his father across the room. But it wasn't a room. It was a
space outdoors under the low branch of a tree whose trunk was so big it
was as wide as the wall had been. Nor was the Persian rug there. It was
replaced by a close-cropped bright green grass. Here and there foot-high
flowers with bright yellow petals tipped in scarlet swayed beneath an
internal wind. Close to Mr. Crane's feet a white horse no larger than a
fox terrier bit off the flaming end of a plant.

All those things were wonderful enough--but was that naked giant who
sprawled upon a moss-covered boulder father? No! Yes! Though the
features were no longer pinched and scored and pale, though they were
glowing and tanned and smooth like a young athlete's they were his
father's! Even the thick, curly hair that fell down over a wide forehead
and the panther-muscled body could not hide his identity.

Though it tore at his nerves, and though he was afraid that once he
looked away he would never again seize the vision, Jack ripped his gaze
away from the rosy view.

The descent to the grey and rasping reality was so painful that tears
ran down his cheeks, and he gasped as if struck in the pit of the
stomach. How could beauty like that be all around him without his
knowing it?

He felt that he had been blind all his life until this moment and would
be forever eyeless again, an unbearable forever, if he did not look
through the glass again.

He stole another hurried glance, and the pain in his heart and stomach
went away, his insides became wrapped in a soft wind. He was lifted. He
was floating, a pale red, velvety air caressed him and buoyed him.

He saw his mother run from around the tree. That should have seemed
peculiar, because he had thought she was dead. But there she was, no
longer flat-walking and coughing and thin and wax-skinned, but
golden-brown and curvy and bouncy. She jumped at Daddy and gave him a
long kiss. Daddy didn't seem to mind that she had no clothes on. Oh, it
was so wonderful. Jack was drifting on a yielding and wine-tinted air
and warmed with a wind that seemed to swell him out like a happy
balloon....

Suddenly he was falling, hurtling helplessly and sickeningly through a
void while a cold and drab blast gouged his skin and spun him around and
around. The world he had always known shoved hard against him. Again he
felt the blow in the solar plexus and saw the grey tentacles of the
living reality reach for his heart.

Jack looked up at the stranger, who was just about to put his spectacles
on the bridge of his long nose. His eyelids were closed. Jack never did
see the pink eyes.

That didn't bother him. He had other things to think about. He crouched
beside the chair while his brain tried to move again, tried to engulf a
thought and failed because it could not become fluid enough to find the
idea that would move his tongue to shriek, _No! No! No!_

And when the salesman rose and placed his papers in his case and patted
Jack on the head and bent his opaque rose spectacles at him and said
good-by and that he wouldn't be coming back because he was going out of
town to stay, Jack was not able to move or say a thing. Nor for a long
time after the door had closed could he break through the mass that
gripped him like hardened lava. By then, no amount of screams and
weeping would bring Mister back. All his father could do was to call a
doctor who took the boy's temperature and gave him some pills.


IV

Jack stood inside the wire and bent his neck back to watch a huge black
and silver oyster feel the dusk for a landing-field with its single
white foot and its orange toes. Blindingly, lights sprang to attention
over the camp.

When Jack had blinked his eyes back to normal, he could see over the
flat half-mile between the fence and the ship. It lay quiet and
glittering and smoking in the flood-beams. He could see the round door
in its side swing open. Men began filing out. A truck rumbled across the
plain and pulled up beside the metal bulk. A very tall man stepped out
of the cab and halted upon the running board, from which he seemed to be
greeting the newcomers or giving them instructions. Whatever he was
saying took so long that Jack lost interest.

Lately, he had not been able to focus his mind for any length of time
upon anything except that one event in the past. He wandered around and
whipped glances at his comrades' faces, noting listlessly that their
uniforms and shaved heads had improved their appearance. But nothing
would be able to chill the feverishness of their eyes.

Whistles shrilled. Jack jumped. His heart beat faster. He felt as if the
end of the quest were suddenly close. Somebody would be around the
corner. In a minute that person would be facing him, and then ...

Then, he reflected, and sagged with a wave of disappointment at the
thought, then there was nobody around the corner. It always happened
that way. Besides, there weren't any corners in this camp. He had
reached the wall at the end of the alley. Why didn't he stop looking?

Sergeants lined the prisoners up four abreast preparatory to marching
them into the barracks. Jack supposed it was time to turn in for the
night. He submitted to their barked orders and hard hands without
resentment. They seemed a long way off. For the ten thousandth time he
was thinking that this need not have happened.

If he had been man enough to grapple with himself, to wrestle as Jacob
did with the angel and not let loose until he had felled the problem, he
could be teaching philosophy in a quiet little college, as his father
did. He had graduated from high school with only average marks, and
then, instead of going to college, as his father had so much wanted him
to, he had decided he would work a year. With his earnings, he would see
the world.

He had seen it, but when his money ran out he had not returned home. He
had drifted, taking jobs here and there, sleeping in flop-houses,
jungles, park benches, and freight cars.

When the newly created Bureau of Health and Sanity had frozen jobs in an
effort to solve the transiency problem, Jack had refused to work. He
knew that he would not be able to quit a job without being arrested at
once. Like hundreds of thousands of other youths, he had begged and
stolen and hidden from the local police and the Bohas.

Even through all those years of misery and wandering, he had not once
admitted to himself the true nature of this fog-cottoned grail. He knew
it, and he did not know it. It was patrolling the edge of his mind,
circling a far-off periphery, recognizable by a crude silhouette but
nameless. Any time he wanted to, he could have summoned it closer and
said, _You are it, and I know you, and I know what I am looking for. It
is...? Is what? Worthless? Foolish? Insane? A dream?_

Jack had never had the courage to take that action. When it seemed the
thing was galloping closer, charging down upon him, he ran away. It must
stay on the horizon, moving on, always moving, staying out of his grasp.

"All you guys, for'ard 'arch!"

Jack did not move. The truck from the rocket had come through a gate and
stopped by the transies, and about fifty men were getting off the back.

The man behind Jack bumped into him. Jack paid him no attention. He did
not move. He squinted at the group who had come from the rocket. They
were very tall, hump-shouldered, and dressed in light grey-green Palm
Beach suits and tan Panama hats. Each held a brown leather briefcase at
the end of a long, thin arm. Each wore on the bridge of his long nose a
pair of rose-colored glasses.

A cry broke hoarsely from the transies. Some of those in front of Jack
fell to their knees as if a sudden poison had paralyzed their legs. They
called names and stretched out open hands. A boy by Jack's side sprawled
face-down on the sand while he uttered over and over again, "Mr.
Pelopoeus! Mr. Pelopoeus!"

The name meant nothing to Jack. He did feel repulsed at seeing the
fellow turn on his side, bend his neck forward, bring his clenched fists
up against his chest, and jackknife his legs against his arms. He had
seen it many times before in the transie jungles, but he had never
gotten over the sickness it had first caused him.

He turned away and came almost nose to nose with one of the men from the
rocket. He had put down his briefcase so it rested against his leg and
taken a white handkerchief out of his breast pocket to wipe the dust
from his lenses. His lids were squeezed shut as if he found the lights
unbearable.

Jack stared and could not move while a name that the boy behind him had
been crying out slowly worked its way through his consciousness.
Suddenly, like the roar of a flashflood that is just rounding the bend
of a dry gulch, the syllables struck him. He lunged forward and clutched
at the spectacles in the man's hand. At the same time he yelled over and
over the words that had filled out the blank in his memory.

"Mr. Eumenes! Mr. Eumenes!"

A sergeant cursed and slammed his fist into Jack's face. Jack fell down,
flat on his back. Though his jaw felt as if it were torn loose from its
hinge, he rolled over on his side, raised himself on his hands and
knees, and began to get up to his feet.

"Stand still!" bellowed the sergeant. "Stay in formation or you'll get
more of the same!"

Jack shook his head until it cleared. He crouched and held out his hands
toward the man, but he did not move his feet. Over and over,
half-chanting, half-crooning, he said, "Mr. Eumenes! The glasses!
Please, Mr. Eumenes, the glasses!"

The forty-nine Mr. Eumenae-and-otherwise looked incuriously with
impenetrable rosy eyes. The fiftieth put the white handkerchief back in
his pocket. His mouth opened. False teeth gleamed. With his free hand he
took off his hat and waved it at the crowd and bowed.

His tilted head showed a white fuzzlike hair that shot up over his pale
scalp. His gestures were both comic and terrifying. The hat and the
inclination of his body said far more than words could. They said,
_Good-by forever, and bon voyage!_

Then Mr. Eumenes straightened up and opened his lids.

At first, the sockets looked as if they held no eyeballs, as if they
were empty of all but shadows.

Jack saw them from a distance. Mr. Eumenes-or-his-twin was shooting away
faster and faster and becoming smaller and smaller. No! He himself was.
He was rocketing away within his own body. He was falling down a deep
well.

He, Jack Crane, was a hollow shaft down which he slipped and screamed,
away, away, from the world outside. It was like seeing from the wrong
end of a pair of binoculars that lengthened and lengthened while the man
with the long-sought-for treasure in his hand flew in the opposite
direction as if he had been connected to the horizon by a rubber band
and somebody had released it and he was flying towards it, away from
Jack.

Even as this happened, as he knew vaguely that his muscles were locking
into the posture of a beggar, hands out, pleading, face twisted into an
agony of asking, lips repeating his croon-chant, he saw what had
occurred.

The realization was like the sudden, blinding, and at the same time
clarifying light that sometimes comes to epileptics just as they are
going into a seizure. It was the thought that he had kept away on the
horizon of his mind, the thought that now charged in on him with long
leaps and bounds and then stopped and sat on its haunches and grinned at
him while its long tongue lolled.

Of course, he should have known all these years what it was. He should
have known that Mr. Eumenes was the worst thing in the world for him. He
had known it, but, like a drug addict, he had refused to admit it. He
had searched for the man. Yet he had known it would be fatal to find
him. The rose-colored spectacles would swing gates that should never be
fully open. And he should have guessed _what_ and _who_ Mr. Eumenes was
when that encyclopedic fellow in the truck had singsonged those names.

How could he have been so stupid? Stupid? It was easy! He had _wanted_
to be stupid! And how could the Mr. Eumenes-or-otherwise have used such
obvious giveaway names? It was a measure of their contempt for the
humans around them and of their own grim wit. Look at all the double
entendres the salesman had given his father, and his father had never
suspected. Even the head of the Bureau of Health and Sanity had been
terrifyingly blasé about it.

Dr. Vespa. He had thrown his name like a gauntlet to humanity, and
humanity had stared idiotically at it and never guessed its meaning.
Vespa was a good Italian name. Jack didn't know what it meant, but he
supposed that it had the same meaning as the Latin. He remembered it
from his high school class.

As for his not encountering the salesman until now, he had been lucky.
If he had run across him during his search, he would have been denied
the glasses, as now. And the shock would have made him unable to cry out
and betray the man. He would have done what he was so helplessly doing
at this moment, and he would have been carted off to an institution.

How many other transies had seen that unforgettable face on the streets,
the end of their search, and gone at once into that state that made them
legal prey of the Bohas?

That was almost his last rational thought. He could no longer feel his
flesh. A thin red curtain was falling between him and his senses.
Everywhere it billowed out beneath him and eased his fall. Everywhere it
swirled and softened the outlines of things that were streaking by--a
large tree that he remembered seeing in his living room, a naked giant,
his father, leaning against it and eating an apple, and a delicate
little white creature cropping flowers.

Yet all this while he lived in two worlds. One was the passage downwards
towards the Garden of Eden. The other was that hemisphere in which he
had dwelt so reluctantly, the one he now perceived through the
thickening red veil of his sight and other senses.

They were not yet gone. He could feel the hands of the black-clad
officers lifting him up and laying him upon some hard substance that
rocked and dumped. Every lurch and thud was only dimly felt. Then he was
placed upon something softer and carried into what he vaguely sensed was
the interior of one of the barracks.

Some time later--he didn't know or care when, for he had lost all
conception or even definition of time--he looked up the deep
everlengthening shaft of himself into the eyes of another Mr. Eumenes or
Mr. Sphex or Dr. Vespa or whatever he called himself. He was in white
and wore a stethoscope around his neck.

Beside him stood another of his own kind. This one wore lipstick and a
nurse's cap. She carried a tray on which were several containers. One
container held a large and sharp scalpel. The other held an egg. It was
about twice the size of a hen's egg.

Jack saw all this just before the veil took on another shade of red and
blurred completely his vision of the outside. But the final thickening
did not keep him from seeing that Doctor Eumenes was staring down at him
as if he were peering into a dusky burrow. And Jack could make out the
eyes. They were large, much larger than they should have been at the
speed with which Jack was receding. They were not the pale pink of an
albino's. They were black from corner to corner and built of a dozen or
so hexagons whose edges caught the light.

They twinkled.

Like jewels.

Or the eyes of an enormous and evolved wasp.




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Fantastic Universe_ January 1954.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of Project Gutenberg's They Twinkled Like Jewels, by Philip José Farmer

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THEY TWINKLED LIKE JEWELS ***

***** This file should be named 29559-8.txt or 29559-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/5/5/29559/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
