The Project Gutenberg EBook of Death of a Spaceman, by Walter M. Miller

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Death of a Spaceman

Author: Walter M. Miller

Illustrator: Ernest Schroeder

Release Date: August 9, 2009 [EBook #29643]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEATH OF A SPACEMAN ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: Illustrator: Ernest Schroeder]


 DEATH
    OF A
      SPACEMAN

BY WALTER M. MILLER, JR.


    _The manner in which a man has lived is often the key to the way he
    will die. Take old man Donegal, for example. Most of his adult life
    was spent in digging a hole through space to learn what was on the
    other side. Would he go out the same way?_


Old Donegal was dying. They had all known it was coming, and they
watched it come--his haggard wife, his daughter, and now his grandson,
home on emergency leave from the pre-astronautics academy. Old Donegal
knew it too, and had known it from the beginning, when he had begun to
lose control of his legs and was forced to walk with a cane. But most of
the time, he pretended to let them keep the secret they shared with the
doctors--that the operations had all been failures, and that the cancer
that fed at his spine would gnaw its way brainward until the paralysis
engulfed vital organs, and then Old Donegal would cease to be. It would
be cruel to let them know that he knew. Once, weeks ago, he had joked
about the approaching shadows.

"Buy the plot back where people won't walk over it, Martha," he said.
"Get it way back under the cedars--next to the fence. There aren't many
graves back there yet. I want to be alone."

"Don't _talk_ that way, Donny!" his wife had choked. "You're not dying."

His eyes twinkled maliciously. "Listen, Martha, I want to be buried
face-down. I want to be buried with my back to space, understand? Don't
let them lay me out like a lily."

"Donny, _please_!"

"They oughta face a man the way he's headed," Donegal grunted. "I been
up--_way_ up. Now I'm going straight down."

Martha had fled from the room in tears. He had never done it again,
except to the interns and nurses, who, while they insisted that he was
going to get well, didn't mind joking with him about it.

Martha can bear my death, he thought, can bear pre-knowledge of it. But
she couldn't bear thinking that he might take it calmly. If he accepted
death gracefully, it would be like deliberately leaving her, and Old
Donegal had decided to help her believe whatever would be comforting to
her in such a troublesome moment.

"When'll they let me out of this bed again?" he complained.

"Be patient, Donny," she sighed. "It won't be long. You'll be up and
around before you know it."

"Back on the moon-run, maybe?" he offered. "Listen, Martha, I been
planet-bound too long. I'm not too old for the moon-run, am I?
Sixty-three's not so old."

That had been carrying things too far. She knew he was hoaxing, and
dabbed at her eyes again. The dead must humor the mourners, he thought,
and the sick must comfort the visitors. It was always so.

But it was harder, now that the end was near. His eyes were hazy, and
his thoughts unclear. He could move his arms a little, clumsily, but
feeling was gone from them. The rest of his body was lost to him.
Sometimes he seemed to feel his stomach and his hips, but the sensation
was mostly an illusion offered by higher nervous centers, like the
"ghost-arm" that an amputee continues to feel. The wires were down, and
he was cut off from himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

He lay wheezing on the hospital bed, in his own room, in his own rented
flat. Gaunt and unshaven, gray as winter twilight, he lay staring at the
white net curtains that billowed gently in the breeze from the open
window. There was no sound in the room but the sound of breathing and
the loud ticking of an alarm clock. Occasionally he heard a chair
scraping on the stone terrace next door, and the low mutter of voices,
sometimes laughter, as the servants of the Keith mansion arranged the
terrace for late afternoon guests.

With considerable effort, he rolled his head toward Martha who sat
beside the bed, pinch-faced and weary.

"You ought to get some sleep," he said.

"I slept yesterday. Don't talk, Donny. It tires you."

"You ought to get more sleep. You never sleep enough. Are you afraid
I'll get up and run away if you go to sleep for a while?"

She managed a brittle smile. "There'll be plenty of time for sleep
when ... when you're well again." The brittle smile fled and she
swallowed hard, like swallowing a fish-bone. He glanced down, and
noticed that she was squeezing his hand spasmodically.

There wasn't much left of the hand, he thought. Bones and ugly
tight-stretched hide spotted with brown. Bulging knuckles with yellow
cigaret stains. My hand. He tried to tighten it, tried to squeeze
Martha's thin one in return. He watched it open and contract a little,
but it was like operating a remote-control mechanism. Goodbye, hand,
you're leaving me the way my legs did, he told it. I'll see you again in
hell. How hammy can you get, Old Donegal? You maudlin ass.

"Requiescat," he muttered over the hand, and let it lie in peace.

Perhaps she heard him. "Donny," she whispered, leaning closer, "won't
you let me call the priest now? Please."

He rattled a sigh and rolled his head toward the window again. "Are the
Keiths having a party today?" he asked. "Sounds like they're moving
chairs out on the terrace."

"Please, Donny, the priest?"

He let his head roll aside and closed his eyes, as if asleep. The bed
shook slightly as she quickly caught at his wrist to feel for a pulse.

"If I'm not dying, I don't need a priest," he said sleepily.

"That's not right," she scolded softly. "You know that's not right,
Donny. You know better."

Maybe I'm being too rough on her? he wondered. He hadn't minded getting
baptized her way, and married her way, and occasionally priest-handled
the way she wanted him to when he was home from a space-run, but when it
came to dying, Old Donegal wanted to do it his own way.

       *       *       *       *       *

He opened his eyes at the sound of a bench being dragged across the
stone terrace. "Martha, what kind of a party are the Keiths having
today?"

"I wouldn't know," she said stiffly. "You'd think they'd have a little
more respect. You'd think they'd put it off a few days."

"Until--?"

"Until you feel better."

"I feel fine, Martha. I like parties. I'm glad they're having one. Pour
me a drink, will you? I can't reach the bottle anymore."

"It's empty."

"No, it isn't, Martha, it's still a quarter full. I know. I've been
watching it."

"You shouldn't have it, Donny. Please don't."

"But this is a party, Martha. Besides, the doctor says I can have
whatever I want. Whatever I want, you hear? That means I'm getting well,
doesn't it?"

"Sure, Donny, sure. Getting well."

"The whiskey, Martha. Just a finger in a tumbler, no more. I want to
feel like it's a party."

Her throat was rigid as she poured it. She helped him get the tumbler to
his mouth. The liquor seared his throat, and he gagged a little as the
fumes clogged his nose. Good whiskey, the best--but he couldn't take it
any more. He eyed the green stamp on the neck of the bottle on the
bed-table and grinned. He hadn't had whiskey like that since his
space-days. Couldn't afford it now, not on a blastman's pension.

       *       *       *       *       *

He remembered how he and Caid used to smuggle a couple of fifths aboard
for the moon-run. If they caught you, it meant suspension, but there was
no harm in it, not for the blastroom men who had nothing much to do from
the time the ship acquired enough velocity for the long, long coaster
ride until they started the rockets again for Lunar landing. You could
drink a fifth, jettison the bottle through the trash lock, and sober up
before you were needed again. It was the only way to pass the time in
the cramped cubicle, unless you ruined your eyes trying to read by the
glow-lamps. Old Donegal chuckled. If he and Caid had stayed on the run,
Earth would have a ring by now, like Saturn--a ring of Old Granddad
bottles.

"You said it, Donny-boy," said the misty man by the billowing curtains.
"Who else knows the gegenschein is broken glass?"

Donegal laughed. Then he wondered what the man was doing there. The man
was lounging against the window, and his unzipped space rig draped about
him in an old familiar way. Loose plug-in connections and hose-ends
dangled about his lean body. He was freckled and grinning.

"Caid," Old Donegal breathed softly.

"What did you say, Donny?" Martha answered.

Old Donegal blinked hard and shook his head. Something let go with a
soggy snap, and the misty man was gone. I'd better take it easy on the
whiskey, he thought. You got to wait, Donegal, old lush, until Nora and
Ken get here. You can't get drunk until they're gone, or you might get
them mixed up with memories like Caid's.

Car doors slammed in the street below. Martha glanced toward the window.

"Think it's them? I wish they'd get here. I wish they'd hurry."

Martha arose and tiptoed to the window. She peered down toward the
sidewalk, put on a sharp frown. He heard a distant mutter of voices and
occasional laughter, with group-footsteps milling about on the sidewalk.
Martha murmured her disapproval and closed the window.

"Leave it open," he said.

"But the Keiths' guests are starting to come. There'll be such a
racket." She looked at him hopefully, the way she did when she prompted
his manners before company came.

Maybe it wasn't decent to listen in on a party when you were dying, he
thought. But that wasn't the reason. Donegal, your chamber-pressure's
dropping off. Your brains are in your butt-end, where a spacer's brains
belong, but your butt-end died last month. She wants the window closed
for her own sake, not yours.

"Leave it closed," he grunted. "But open it again before the moon-run
blasts off. I want to listen."

She smiled and nodded, glancing at the clock. "It'll be an hour and a
half yet. I'll watch the time."

"I hate that clock. I wish you'd throw it out. It's loud."

"It's your medicine-clock, Donny." She came back to sit down at his
bedside again. She sat in silence. The clock filled the room with its
clicking pulse.

"What time are they coming?" he asked.

"Nora and Ken? They'll be here soon. Don't fret."

"Why should I fret?" He chuckled. "That boy--he'll be a good spacer,
won't he, Martha?"

Martha said nothing, fanned at a fly that crawled across his pillow. The
fly buzzed up in an angry spiral and alighted on the ceiling. Donegal
watched it for a time. The fly had natural-born space-legs. I know your
tricks, he told it with a smile, and I learned to walk on the bottomside
of things before you were a maggot. You stand there with your magnasoles
hanging to the hull, and the rest of you's in free fall. You jerk a sole
loose, and your knee flies up to your belly, and reaction spins you
half-around and near throws your other hip out of joint if you don't jam
the foot down fast and jerk up the other. It's worse'n trying to run
through knee-deep mud with snow-shoes, and a man'll go nuts trying to
keep his arms and legs from taking off in odd directions. I know your
tricks, fly. But the fly was born with his magnasoles, and he trotted
across the ceiling like Donegal never could.

"That boy Ken--he ought to make a damn good space-engineer," wheezed the
old man.

Her silence was long, and he rolled his head toward her again. Her lips
tight, she stared down at the palm of his hand, unfolded his bony
fingers, felt the cracked calluses that still welted the shrunken skin,
calluses worn there by the linings of space gauntlets and the handles of
fuel valves, and the rungs of get-about ladders during free fall.

"I don't know if I should tell you," she said.

"Tell me what, Martha?"

She looked up slowly, scrutinizing his face. "Ken's changed his mind,
Nora says. Ken doesn't like the academy. She says he wants to go to
medical school."

Old Donegal thought it over, nodded absently. "That's fine. Space-medics
get good pay." He watched her carefully.

She lowered her eyes, rubbed at his calluses again. She shook her head
slowly. "He doesn't want to go to space."

The clock clicked loudly in the closed room.

"I thought I ought to tell you, so you won't say anything to him about
it," she added.

Old Donegal looked grayer than before. After a long silence, he rolled
his head away and looked toward the limp curtains.

"Open the window, Martha," he said.

Her tongue clucked faintly as she started to protest, but she said
nothing. After frozen seconds, she sighed and went to open it. The
curtains billowed, and a babble of conversation blew in from the terrace
of the Keith mansion. With the sound came the occasional brassy discord
of a musician tuning his instrument. She clutched the window-sash as if
she wished to slam it closed again.

"Well! Music!" grunted Old Donegal. "That's good. This is some shebang.
Good whiskey and good music and you." He chuckled, but it choked off
into a fit of coughing.

"Donny, about Ken--"

"No matter, Martha," he said hastily. "Space-medic's pay is good."

"But, Donny--" She turned from the window, stared at him briefly, then
said, "Sure, Donny, sure," and came back to sit down by his bed.

He smiled at her affectionately. She was a man's woman, was
Martha--always had been, still was. He had married her the year he had
gone to space--a lissome, wistful, old-fashioned lass, with big violet
eyes and gentle hands and gentle thoughts--and she had never complained
about the long and lonely weeks between blast-off and glide-down, when
most spacers' wives listened to the psychiatrists and soap-operas and
soon developed the symptoms that were expected of them, either because
the symptoms were _chic_, or because they felt they should do something
to earn the pity that was extended to them. "It's not so bad," Martha
had assured him. "The house keeps me busy till Nora's home from school,
and then there's a flock of kids around till dinner. Nights are a little
empty, but if there's a moon, I can always go out on the porch and look
at it and know where you are. And Nora gets out the telescope you built
her, and we make a game of it. 'Seeing if Daddy's still at the office,'
she calls it."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Those were the days," he muttered.

"What, Donny?"

"Do you remember that Steve Farran song?"

She paused, frowning thoughtfully. There were a lot of Steve Farran
songs, but after a moment she picked the right one, and sang it
softly ...

    "O moon whereo'er the clouds fly,
    Beyond the willow tree,
    There is a ramblin' space guy
    I wish you'd save for me.

    "_Mare Tranquillitatis_,
    O dark and tranquil sea,
    Until he drops from heaven,
    Rest him there with thee ..."

Her voice cracked, and she laughed. Old Donegal chuckled weakly.

"Fried mush," he said. "That one made the cats wilt their ears and wail
at the moon.

"I feel real crazy," he added. "Hand me the king kong, fluff-muff."

"Keep cool, Daddy-O, you've had enough." Martha reddened and patted his
arm, looking pleased. Neither of them had talked that way, even in the
old days, but the out-dated slang brought back memories--school parties,
dances at the Rocketport Club, the early years of the war when Donegal
had jockeyed an R-43 fighter in the close-space assaults against the
Soviet satellite project. The memories were good.

A brassy blare of modern "slide" arose suddenly from the Keith terrace
as the small orchestra launched into its first number. Martha caught an
angry breath and started toward the window.

"Leave it," he said. "It's a party. Whiskey, Martha. Please--just a
small one."

She gave him a hurtful glance.

"Whiskey. Then you can call the priest."

"Donny, it's not right. You know it's not right--to bargain for such as
that."

"All right. Whiskey. Forget the priest."

She poured it for him, and helped him get it down, and then went out to
make the phone-call. Old Donegal lay shuddering over the whiskey taste
and savoring the burn in his throat. Jesus, but it was good.

You old bastard, he thought, you got no right to enjoy life when
nine-tenths of you is dead already, and the rest is foggy as a thermal
dust-rise on the lunar maria at hell-dawn. But it wasn't a bad way to
die. It ate your consciousness away from the feet up; it gnawed away the
Present, but it let you keep the Past, until everything faded and
blended. Maybe that's what Eternity was, he thought--one man's
subjective Past, all wrapped up and packaged for shipment, a single
space-time entity, a one-man microcosm of memories, when nothing else
remains.

"If I've got a soul, I made it myself," he told the gray nun at the foot
of his bed.

The nun held out a pie pan, rattled a few coins in it. "Contribute to
the Radiation Victims' Relief?" the nun purred softly.

"I know you," he said. "You're my conscience. You hang around the
officers' mess, and when we get back from a sortie, you make us pay for
the damage we did. But that was forty years ago."

The nun smiled, and her luminous eyes were on him softly. "Mother of
God!" he breathed, and reached for the whiskey. His arm obeyed. The last
drink had done him good. He had to watch his hand to see where it was
going, and squeezed the neck until his fingers whitened so that he knew
that he had it, but he got it off the table and onto his chest, and he
got the cork out with his teeth. He had a long pull at the bottle, and
it made his eyes water and his hands grow weak. But he got it back to
the table without spilling a bit, and he was proud of himself.

The room was spinning like the cabin of a gyro-gravved ship. By the time
he wrestled it to a standstill, the nun was gone. The blare of music
from the Keith terrace was louder, and laughing voices blended with it.
Chairs scraping and glasses rattling. A fine party, Keith, I'm glad you
picked today. This shebang would be the younger Keith's affair. Ronald
Tonwyler Keith, III, scion of Orbital Engineering and Construction
Company--builders of the moon-shuttle ships that made the run from the
satellite station to Luna and back.

It's good to have such important neighbors, he thought. He wished he had
been able to meet them while he was still up and about. But the Keiths'
place was walled-in, and when a Keith came out, he charged out in a
limousine with a chauffeur at the wheel, and the iron gate closed again.
The Keiths built the wall when the surrounding neighborhood began to
grow shabby with age. It had once been the best of neighborhoods, but
that was before Old Donegal lived in it. Now it consisted of sooty old
houses and rented flats, and the Keith place was really not a part of it
anymore. Nevertheless, it was really something when a pensioned blastman
could say, "I live out close to the Keiths--you know, the _Ronald_
Keiths." At least, that's what Martha always told him.

The music was so loud that he never heard the doorbell ring, but when a
lull came, he heard Nora's voice downstairs, and listened hopefully for
Ken's. But when they came up, the boy was not with them.

"Hello, skinny-britches," he greeted his daughter.

Nora grinned and came over to kiss him. Her hair dangled about his face,
and he noticed that it was blacker than usual, with the gray streaks
gone from it again.

"You smell good," he said.

"You don't, Pops. You smell like a sot. Naughty!"

"Where's Ken?"

She moistened her lips nervously and looked away. "He couldn't come. He
had to take a driver's lesson. He really couldn't help it. If he didn't
go, he'd lose his turn, and then he wouldn't finish before he goes back
to the academy." She looked at him apologetically.

"It's all right, Nora."

"If he missed it, he wouldn't get his copter license until summer."

"It's okay. Copters! Hell, the boy should be in jets by now!"

Several breaths passed in silence. She gazed absently toward the window
and shook her head. "No jets, Pop. Not for Ken."

He glowered at her. "Listen! How'll he get into space? He's got to get
his jet licenses first. Can't get in rockets without 'em."

Nora shot a quick glance at her mother. Martha rolled her eyes as if
sighing patiently. Nora went to the window to stare down toward the
Keith terrace. She tucked a cigaret between scarlet lips, lit it, blew
nervous smoke against the pane.

"Mom, can't you call them and have that racket stopped?"

"Donny says he likes it."

Nora's eyes flitted over the scene below. "Female butterflies and
puppy-dogs in sport jackets. And the cadets." She snorted. "Cadets!
Imagine Ron Keith the Third ever going to space. The old man buys his
way into the academy, and they throw a brawl as if Ronny passed the
Compets."

"Maybe he did," growled Old Donegal.

"Hah!"

"They live in a different world, I guess," Martha sighed.

"If it weren't for men like Pops, they'd never've made their fortune."

"I like the music, I tell you," grumbled the old man.

"I'm half-a-mind to go over there and tell them off," Nora murmured.

"Let them alone. Just so they'll stop the racket for blast-away."

"Look at them!--polite little pattern-cuts, all alike. They take
pre-space, because it's the thing to do. Then they quit before the
pay-off comes."

"How do you know they'll quit?"

"That party--I bet it cost six months' pay, spacer's pay," she went on,
ignoring him. "And what do real spacers get? Oley gets killed, and Pop's
pension wouldn't feed the Keiths' cat."

"You don't understand, girl."

"I lost Oley. I understand enough."

       *       *       *       *       *

He watched her silently for a moment, then closed his eyes. It was no
good trying to explain, no good trying to tell her the dough didn't mean
a damn thing. She'd been a spacer's wife, and that was bad enough, but
now she was a spacer's widow. And Oley? Oley's tomb revolved around the
sun in an eccentric orbit that spun-in close to Mercury, then reached
out into the asteroid belt, once every 725 days. When it came within
rocket radius of Earth, it whizzed past at close to fifteen miles a
second.

You don't rescue a ship like that, skinny-britches, my darling daughter.
Nor do you salvage it after the crew stops screaming for help. If you
use enough fuel to catch it, you won't get back. You just leave such a
ship there forever, like an asteroid, and it's a damn shame about the
men trapped aboard. Heroes all, no doubt--but the smallness of the
widow's monthly check failed to confirm the heroism, and Nora was bitter
about the price of Oley's memory, perhaps.

Ouch! Old Donegal, you know she's not like that. It's just that she
can't understand about space. You ought to make her understand.

But did he really understand himself? You ride hot in a roaring
blastroom, hands tense on the mixer controls and the pumps, eyes glued
to instruments, body sucked down in a four-gravity thrust, and wait for
the command to choke it off. Then you float free and weightless in a
long nightmare as the beast coasts moonward, a flung javelin.

The "romance" of space--drivel written in the old days. When you're not
blasting, you float in a cramped hotbox, crawl through dirty mazes of
greasy pipe and cable to tighten a lug, scratch your arms and bark your
shins, get sick and choked up because no gravity helps your gullet get
the food down. Liquid is worse, but you gag your whiskey down because
you have to.

Stars?--you see stars by squinting through a viewing lens, and it's like
a photo-transparency, and if you aren't careful, you'll get an eyeful of
Old Blinder and back off with a punch-drunk retina.

Adventure?--unless the skipper calls for course-correction, you float
around in the blast-cubicle with damn little to do between blast-away
and moon-down, except sweat out the omniscient accident statistics. If
the beast blows up or gets gutted in space, a statistic had your name
on it, that's all, and there's no fighting back. You stay outwardly sane
because you're a hog for punishment; if you weren't, you'd never get
past the psychologists.

"Did you like horror movies when you were a kid?" asked the psych. And
you'd damn well better answer "yes," if you want to go to space.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tell her, old man, you're her pop. Tell her why it's worth it, if you
know. You jail yourself in a coffin-size cubicle, and a crazy beast
thunders berserk for uncontrollable seconds, and then you soar in
ominous silence for the long, long hours. Grow sweaty, filthy, sick,
miserable, idle--somewhere out in Big Empty, where Man's got no business
except the trouble he always makes for himself wherever he goes. Tell
her why it's worth it, for pay less than a good bricklayer's. Tell her
why Oley would do it again.

"It's a sucker's run, Nora," he said. "You go looking for kicks, but the
only kicks you get to keep is what Oley got. God knows why--but it's
worth it."

Nora said nothing. He opened his eyes slowly. Nora was gone. Had she
been there at all?

He blinked around at the fuzzy room, and dissolved the shifting shadows
that sometimes emerged as old friendly faces, grinning at him. He found
Martha.

"You went to sleep," said Martha. "She had to go. Kennie called. He'll
be over later, if you're not too tired."

"I'm not tired. I'm all head. There's nothing much to get tired."

"I love you, Old Donegal."

"Hold my hand again."

"I'm holding it, old man."

"Then hold me where I can feel it."

She slid a thin arm under his neck, and bent over his face to kiss him.
She was crying a little, and he was glad she could do it now without
fleeing the room.

"Can I talk about dying now?" he wondered aloud.

She pinched her lips together and shook her head.

"I lie to myself, Martha. You know how much I lie to myself?"

She nodded slowly and stroked his gray temples.

"I lie to myself about Ken, and about dying. If Ken turned spacer, I
wouldn't die--that's what I told myself. You know?"

She shook her head. "Don't talk, Donny, please."

"A man makes his own soul, Martha."

"That's not true. You shouldn't say things like that."

"A man makes his own soul, but it dies with him, unless he can pour it
into his kids and his grandchildren before he goes. I lied to myself.
Ken's a yellow-belly. Nora made him one, and the boots won't fit."

"Don't, Donny. You'll excite yourself again."

"I was going to give him the boots--the over-boots with magnasoles. But
they won't fit him. They won't ever fit him. He's a lily-livered
lap-dog, and he whines. Bring me my boots, woman."

"Donny!"

"The boots, they're in my locker in the attic. I want them."

"What on earth!"

"Bring me my goddam space boots and put them on my feet. I'm going to
wear them."

"You can't; the priest's coming."

"Well, get them anyway. What time is it? You didn't let me sleep through
the moon-run blast, did you?"

She shook her head. "It's half an hour yet ... I'll get the boots if you
promise not to make me put them on you."

"I want them on."

"You can't, until Father Paul's finished."

"Do I have to get my feet buttered?"

She sighed. "I wish you wouldn't say things like that. I wish you
wouldn't, Donny. It's sacrilege, you know it is."

"All right--'anointed'," he corrected wearily.

"Yes, you do."

"The boots, woman, the boots."

She went to get them. While she was gone, the doorbell rang, and he
heard her quick footsteps on the stairs, and then Father Paul's voice
asking about the patient. Old Donegal groaned inwardly. After the
priest, the doctor would come, at the usual time, to see if he were dead
yet. The doctor had let him come home from the hospital to die, and the
doctor was getting impatient. Why don't they let me alone? he growled.
Why don't they let me handle it in my own way, and stop making a fuss
over it? I can die and do a good job of it without a lot of outside
interference, and I wish they'd quit picking at me with syringes and
sacraments and enemas. All he wanted was a chance to listen to the
orchestra on the Keith terrace, to drink the rest of his whiskey, and to
hear the beast blast-away for the satellite on the first lap of the run
to Luna.

       *       *       *       *       *

It's going to be my last day, he thought. My eyes are going fuzzy, and I
can't breathe right, and the throbbing's hurting my head. Whether he
lived through the night wouldn't matter, because delirium was coming
over him, and then there would be the coma, and the symbolic fight to
keep him pumping and panting. I'd rather die tonight and get it over
with, he thought, but they probably won't let me go.

He heard their voices coming up the stairs ...

"Nora tried to get them to stop it, Father, but she couldn't get in to
see anybody but the butler. He told her he'd tell Mrs. Keith, but
nothing happened. It's just as loud as before."

"Well, as long as Donny doesn't mind--"

"He just says that. You know how he is."

"What're they celebrating, Martha?"

"Young Ronald's leaving--for pre-space training. It's a going-away
affair." They paused in the doorway. The small priest smiled in at
Donegal and nodded. He set his black bag on the floor inside, winked
solemnly at the patient.

"I'll leave you two alone," said Martha. She closed the door and her
footsteps wandered off down the hall.

Donegal and the young priest eyed each other warily.

"You look like hell, Donegal," the padre offered jovially. "Feeling
nasty?"

"Skip the small talk. Let's get this routine over with."

The priest humphed thoughtfully, sauntered across to the bed, gazed down
at the old man disinterestedly. "What's the matter? Don't want the
'routine'? Rather play it tough?"

"What's the difference?" he growled. "Hurry up and get out. I want to
hear the beast blast off."

"You won't be able to," said the priest, glancing at the window, now
closed again. "That's quite a racket next door."

"They'd better stop for it. They'd better quiet down for it. They'll
have to turn it off for five minutes or so."

"Maybe they won't."

It was a new idea, and it frightened him. He liked the music, and the
party's gaiety, the nearness of youth and good times--but it hadn't
occurred to him that it wouldn't stop so he could hear the beast.

"Don't get upset, Donegal. You know what a blast-off sounds like."

"But it's the last one. The last time. I want to hear."

"How do you know it's the last time?"

"Hell, don't I know when I'm kicking off?"

"Maybe, maybe not. It's hardly your decision."

"It's not, eh?" Old Donegal fumed. "Well, bigawd you'd think it wasn't.
You'd think it was Martha's and yours and that damfool medic's. You'd
think I got no say-so. Who's doing it anyway?"

"I would guess," Father Paul grunted sourly, "that Providence might
appreciate His fair share of the credit."

Old Donegal made a surly noise and hunched his head back into the pillow
to glower.

"You want me?" the priest asked. "Or is this just a case of wifely
conscience?"

"What's the difference? Give me the business and scram."

"No soap. Do you want the sacrament, or are you just being kind to your
wife? If it's for Martha, I'll go _now_."

Old Donegal glared at him for a time, then wilted. The priest brought
his bag to the bedside.

"Bless me, father, for I have sinned."

"Bless you, son."

"I accuse myself ..."

       *       *       *       *       *

Tension, anger, helplessness--they had piled up on him, and now he was
feeling the after-effects. Vertigo, nausea, and the black confetti--a
bad spell. The whiskey--if he could only reach the whiskey. Then he
remembered he was receiving a Sacrament, and struggled to get on with
it. Tell him, old man, tell him of your various rottennesses and vile
transgressions, if you can remember some. A sin is whatever you're sorry
for, maybe. But Old Donegal, you're sorry for the wrong things, and this
young jesuitical gadget wouldn't like listening to it. I'm sorry I
didn't get it instead of Oley, and I'm sorry I fought in the war, and
I'm sorry I can't get out of this bed and take a belt to my daughter's
backside for making a puny whelp out of Ken, and I'm sorry I gave Martha
such a rough time all these years--and wound up dying in a cheap flat,
instead of giving her things like the Keiths had. I wish I had been a
sharpster, contractor, or thief ... instead of a common laboring spacer,
whose species lost its glamor after the war.

Listen, old man, you made your soul yourself, and it's yours. This young
dispenser of oils, substances, and mysteries wishes only to help you
scrape off the rough edges and gouge out the bad spots. He will not
steal it, nor distort it with his supernatural chisels, nor make fun of
it. He can take nothing away, but only cauterize and neutralize, he
says, so why not let him try? Tell him the rotten messes.

"Are you finished, my son?"

Old Donegal nodded wearily, and said what he was asked to say, and heard
the soft mutter of Latin that washed him inside and behind his ghostly
ears ... _ego te absolvo in Nomine Patris_ ... and he accepted the rest
of it lying quietly in the candlelight and the red glow of the sunset
through the window, while the priest anointed him and gave him bread,
and read the words of the soul in greeting its spouse: "I was asleep,
but my heart waked; it is the voice of my beloved calling: come to me my
love, my dove, my undefiled ..." and from beyond the closed window came
the sarcastic wail of a clarinet painting hot slides against a rhythmic
background.

It wasn't so bad, Old Donegal thought when the priest was done. He felt
like a schoolboy in a starched shirt on Sunday morning, and it wasn't a
bad feeling, though it left him weak.

The priest opened the window for him again, and repacked his bag. "Ten
minutes till blast-off," he said. "I'll see what I can do about the
racket next door."

When he was gone, Martha came back in, and he looked at her face and was
glad. She was smiling when she kissed him, and she looked less tired.

"Is it all right for me to die now?" he grunted.

"Donny, don't start that again."

"Where's the boots? You promised to bring them?"

"They're in the hall. Donny, you don't want them."

"I want them, and I want a drink of whiskey, and I want to hear them
fire the beast." He said it slow and hard, and he left no room for
argument.

When she had got the huge boots over his shrunken feet, the magnasoles
clanged against the iron bedframe and clung there, and she rolled him up
so that he could look at them, and Old Donegal chuckled inside. He felt
warm and clean and pleasantly dizzy.

"The whiskey, Martha, and for God's sake, make them stop the noise till
after the firing. Please!"

She went to the window and looked out for a long time. Then she came
back and poured him an insignificant drink.

"Well?"

"I don't know," she said. "I saw Father Paul on the terrace, talking to
somebody."

"Is it time?"

She glanced at the clock, looked at him doubtfully, and nodded. "Nearly
time."

The orchestra finished a number, but the babble of laughing voices
continued. Old Donegal sagged. "They won't do it. They're the Keiths,
Martha. Why should I ruin their party?"

She turned to stare at him, slowly shook her head. He heard someone
shouting, but then a trumpet started softly, introducing a new number.
Martha sucked in a hurt breath, pressed her hands together, and hurried
from the room.

"It's too late," he said after her.

Her footsteps stopped on the stairs. The trumpet was alone. Donegal
listened; and there was no babble of voices, and the rest of the
orchestra was silent. Only the trumpet sang--and it puzzled him, hearing
the same slow bugle-notes of the call played at the lowering of the
colors.

The trumpet stopped suddenly. Then he knew it had been for him.

A brief hush--then thunder came from the blast-station two miles to the
west. First the low reverberation, rattling the windows, then the rising
growl as the sleek beast knifed skyward on a column of blue-white hell.
It grew and grew until it drowned the distant traffic sounds and
dominated the silence outside.

_Quit crying, you old fool, you maudlin ass ..._

"My boots," he whispered, "my boots ... please ..."

"You've got them on, Donny."

He sank quietly then. He closed his eyes and let his heart go up with
the beast, and he sank into the gravity padding of the blastroom, and
Caid was with him, and Oley. And when Ronald Keith, III, instructed the
orchestra to play Blastroom Man, after the beast's rumble had waned, Old
Donegal was on his last moon-run, and he was grinning. He'd had a good
day.

Martha went to the window to stare out at the thin black trail that
curled starward above the blast-station through the twilight sky. Guests
on the terrace were watching it too.

The doorbell rang. That would be Ken, too late. She closed the window
against the chill breeze, and went back to the bed. The boots, the
heavy, clumsy boots--they clung to the bedframe, with his feet half out
of them. She took them off gently and set them out of company's sight.
Then she went to answer the door.




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Stories_ March 1954. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on
    this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and typographical
    errors have been corrected without note.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Death of a Spaceman, by Walter M. Miller

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DEATH OF A SPACEMAN ***

***** This file should be named 29643.txt or 29643.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/6/4/29643/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
