The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Long Voyage, by Carl Richard Jacobi

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Long Voyage

Author: Carl Richard Jacobi

Release Date: August 20, 2009 [EBook #29742]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LONG VOYAGE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









    _When we published Carl Jacobi's last story we had no assurance he
    would be with us so soon again. For when a uniquely gifted
    science-fantasy writer becomes radio-active on the entertainment
    meter and goes voyaging into the unknown, he may be gone from the
    world we know for as long as yesterday's tomorrow. But Carl Jacobi
    has not only returned almost with the speed of light--he has brought
    with him shining new nuggets of wonder and surmise._


    the
   long
 voyage

 _by ... Carl Jacobi_


 The secret lay hidden at the end of nine landings,
 and Medusa-dark was one man's search for it--in
 the strangest journey ever made.


A soft gentle rain began to fall as we emerged from the dark woods and
came out onto the shore. There it was, the sea, stretching as far as the
eye could reach, gray and sullen, and flecked with green-white froth.
The blue _hensorr_ trees, crowding close to the water's edge, were bent
backward as if frightened by the bleakness before them. The sand,
visible under the clear patches of water, was a bleached white like the
exposed surface of a huge bone.

We stood there a moment in silence. Then Mason cleared his throat
huskily.

"Well, here goes," he said. "We'll soon see if we have any friends
about."

He unslung the packsack from his shoulders, removed its protective outer
shield and began to assemble the organic surveyor, an egg-shaped ball of
white carponium secured to a segmented forty-foot rod. While Brandt and
I raised the rod with the aid of an electric fulcrum, Mason carefully
placed his control cabinet on a piece of outcropping rock and made a
last adjustment.

The moment had come. Even above the sound of the sea, you could hear
the strained breathing of the men. Only Navigator Norris appeared
unconcerned. He stood there calmly smoking his pipe, his keen blue eyes
squinting against the biting wind.

Mason switched on the speaker. Its high-frequency scream rose
deafeningly above us and was torn away in unsteady gusts. He began to
turn its center dial, at first a quarter circle, and then all the way to
the final backstop of the calibration. All that resulted was a
continuation of that mournful ululation like a wail out of eternity.

Mason tried again. With stiff wrists he tuned while perspiration stood
out on his forehead, and the rest of us crowded close.

"It's no use," he said. "This pickup failure proves there isn't a
vestige of animal life on Stragella--on this hemisphere of the planet,
at least."

Navigator Norris took his pipe from his mouth and nodded. His face was
expressionless. There was no indication in the man's voice that he had
suffered another great disappointment, his sixth in less than a year.

"We'll go back now," he said, "and we'll try again. There must be some
planet in this system that's inhabited. But it's going to be hard to
tell the women."

Mason let the surveyor rod down with a crash. I could see the anger and
resentment that was gathering in his eyes. Mason was the youngest of our
party and the leader of the antagonistic group that was slowly but
steadily undermining the authority of the Navigator.

This was our seventh exploratory trip after our sixth landing since
entering the field of the sun Ponthis. Ponthis with its sixteen
equal-sized planets, each with a single satellite. First there had been
Coulora; then in swift succession, Jama, Tenethon, Mokrell, and R-9. And
now Stragella. Strange names of strange worlds, revolving about a
strange star.

It was Navigator Norris who told us the names of these planets and
traced their positions on a chart for us. He alone of our group was
familiar with astrogation and cosmography. He alone had sailed the
spaceways in the days before the automatic pilots were installed and
locked and sealed on every ship.

A handsome man in his fortieth year, he stood six feet three with broad
shoulders and a powerful frame. His eyes were the eyes of a scholar,
dreamy yet alive with depth and penetration. I had never seen him lose
his temper, and he governed our company with an iron hand.

He was not perfect, of course. Like all Earthmen, he had his faults.
Months before he had joined with that famed Martian scientist,
Ganeth-Klae, to invent that all-use material, _Indurate_, the formula
for which had been stolen and which therefore had never appeared on the
commercial market. Norris would talk about that for hours. If you
inadvertently started him on the subject a queer glint would enter his
eyes, and he would dig around in his pocket for a chunk of the black
substance.

"Did I ever show you a piece of this?" he would say. "Look at it
carefully. Notice the smooth grainless texture--hard and yet not
brittle. You wouldn't think that it was formed in a gaseous state, then
changed to a liquid and finally to a clay-like material that could be
worked with ease. A thousand years after your body has returned to dust,
that piece of _Indurate_ will still exist, unchanged, unworn. Erosion
will have little effect upon it. Beside it granite, steel are nothing.
If only I had the formula ..."

But he had only half the formula, the half he himself had developed. The
other part was locked in the brain of Ganeth-Klae, and Ganeth-Klae had
disappeared. What had become of him was a mystery. Norris perhaps had
felt the loss more than any one, and he had offered the major part of
his savings as a reward for information leading to the scientist's
whereabouts.

Our party--eighteen couples and Navigator Norris--had gathered together
and subsequently left Earth in answer to a curious advertisement that
had appeared in the Sunday edition of the London _Times_.

    WANTED: _A group of married men and women, young, courageous,
    educated, tired of political and social restrictions, interested
    in extra-terrestrial colonization. Financial resources no
    qualification._

After we had been weeded out, interviewed and rigorously questioned,
Norris had taken us into the hangar, waved a hand toward the _Marie
Galante_ and explained the details.

The _Marie Galante_ was a cruiser-type ship, stripped down to essentials
to maintain speed, but equipped with the latest of everything. For a
short run to Venus, for which it was originally built, it would
accommodate a passenger list of ninety.

But Norris wasn't interested in that kind of run. He had knocked out
bulkheads, reconverted music room and ballroom into living quarters. He
had closed and sealed all observation ports, so that only in the bridge
cuddy could one see into space.

"We shall travel beyond the orbit of the sun," he said. "There will be
no turning back; for the search for a new world, a new life, is not a
task for cowards."

Aside to me, he said: "You're to be the physician of this party, Bagley.
So I'm going to tell you what to expect when we take off. We're going to
have some mighty sick passengers aboard then."

"What do you mean, sir?" I said.

He pointed with his pipe toward the stern of the vessel. "See that ...
well, call it a booster. Ganeth-Klae designed it just before he
disappeared, using the last lot of _Indurate_ in existence. It will
increase our take-off speed by five times, and it will probably have a
bad effect on the passengers."

So we had left Earth, at night from a field out in Essex. Without
orders, without clearance papers, without an automatic pilot check.
Eighteen couples and one navigator--destination unknown. If the
Interstellar Council had known what Norris was up to, it would have been
a case for the Space-Time Commission.

Of that long initial lap of our voyage, perhaps the less said the
better. As always is the case when monotony begins to wear away the
veneer of civilization, character quirks came to the surface, cliques
formed among the passengers, and gossip and personalities became matters
of pre-eminent importance.

Rising to the foreground out of our thirty-six, came Fielding Mason,
tall, taciturn, and handsome, with a keen intellect and a sense of
values remarkable in so young a man. Mason was a graduate of Montape,
the French outgrowth of St. Cyr. But he had majored in military tactics,
psychology and sociology and knew nothing at all about astrogation or
even elemental astronomy. He too was a man of good breeding and
refinement. Nevertheless conflict began to develop between him and
Navigator Norris. That conflict began the day we landed on Coulora.

Norris stepped out of the air lock into the cold thin air, glanced
briefly about him and faced the eighteen men assembled.

"We'll divide into three groups," he said. "Each group to carry an
organic surveyor and take a different direction. Each group will so
regulate its marching as to be back here without fail an hour before
darkness sets in. If you find no sign of animal life, then we will take
off again immediately on your return."

Mason paused halfway in the act of strapping on his packsack.

"What's that got to do with it?" he demanded. "There's vegetation here.
That's all that seems to be necessary."

Norris lit his pipe. "If you find no sign of animal life we will take
off immediately on your return," he said as if he hadn't heard.

But the strangeness of Coulora tempered bad feelings then. The blue
_hensorr_ trees were actually not trees at all but a huge cat-tail-like
growth, the stalks of which were quite transparent. In between the
stalks grew curious cabbage-like plants that changed from red to yellow
as an intruder approached and back to red again after he had passed.
Rock outcroppings were everywhere, but all were eroded and in places
polished smooth as glass.

There was a strange kind of dust that acted as though endowed with life.
It quivered when trod upon, and the outline of our footsteps slowly
rose into the air, so that looking back I could see our trail floating
behind us in irregular layers.

Above us the star that was this planet's sun shown bright but faintly
red as if it were in the first stages of dying. The air though thin was
fit to breathe, and we found it unnecessary to wear space suits. We
marched down the corridors of _hensorr_ trees, until we came to an open
spot, a kind of glade. And that was the first time Mason tuned his
organic surveyor and received absolutely nothing.

There was no animal life on Coulora!

       *       *       *       *       *

Within an hour we had blasted off again. The forward-impact delivered by
the Ganeth-Klae booster was terrific, and nausea and vertigo struck us
all simultaneously. But again, with all ports and observation shields
sealed shut, Norris held the secret of our destination.

On July twenty-second, the ship gave that sickening lurch and came once
again to a standstill.

"Same procedure as before," Norris said, stepping out of the airlock.
"Those of you who desire to have their wives accompany you may do so.
Mason, you'll make a final correlation on the organic surveyors. If
there is no trace of animal life return here before dark."

Once our group was out of sight of the ship, Mason threw down his
packsack, sat down on a boulder and lighted a cigarette.

"Bagley," he said to me, "has the Old Man gone loco?"

"I think not," I said, frowning. "He's one of the most evenly balanced
persons I know."

"Then he's hiding something," Mason said. "Why else should he be so
concerned with finding animal life?"

"You know the answer to that," I said. "We're here to colonize, to start
a new life. We can't very well do that on a desert."

"That's poppycock," Mason replied, flinging away his cigarette. "When
the Albertson expedition first landed on Mars, there was no animal life
on the red planet. Now look at it. Same thing was true when Breslauer
first settled Pluto. The colonies there got along. I tell you Norris has
got something up his sleeve, and I don't like it."

Later, after Mason had taken his negative surveyor reading, the flame of
trouble reached the end of its fuse!

Norris had given orders to return to the _Marie Galante_, and the rest
of us were sullenly making ready to start the back trail. Mason,
however, deliberately seized his pick and began chopping a hole in the
rock surface, preparatory apparently to erecting his plastic tent.

"We'll make temporary camp here," he said calmly. "Brandt, you can go
back to the ship and bring back the rest of the women." He turned and
smiled sardonically at Navigator Norris.

Norris quietly knocked the ashes from his pipe and placed it in his
pocket. He strode forward, took the pick from Mason's hands and flung it
away. Then he seized Mason by the coat, whipped him around and drove his
fist hard against the younger man's jaw.

"When you signed on for this voyage, you agreed to obey my orders," he
said, not raising his voice. "You'll do just that."

Mason picked himself up, and there was an ugly glint in his eyes. He
could have smashed Norris to a pulp, and none knew it better than the
Navigator. For a brief instant the younger man swayed there on the balls
of his feet, fists clenched. Then he let his hands drop, walked over and
began to put on his packsack.

But I had seen Mason's face, and I knew he had not given in as easily as
it appeared. Meanwhile he began to circulate among the passengers,
making no offers, yet subtly enlisting backers for a policy, the
significance of which grew on me slowly. It was mutiny he was plotting!
And with his personal charm and magnetism he had little trouble in
winning over converts. I came upon him arguing before a group of the
women one day, among them his own wife, Estelle. He was standing close
to her.

"We have clothing and equipment and food concentrate," Mason said.
"Enough to last two generations. We have brains and intelligence, and we
certainly should be able to establish ourselves without the aid of other
vertebrate forms of life.

"Coulora, Jama, Tenethon, Mokrell, R-9, and Stragella. We could have
settled on any one of those planets, and apparently we should have, for
conditions have grown steadily worse at each landing. But always the
answer is no. Why? Because Norris says we must go on until we find
animal life."

He cleared his throat and gazed at the feminine faces before him. "Go
where? What makes Norris so sure he'll find life on any planet in this
system? And incidentally where in the cosmos is this system?"

One of the women, a tall blonde, stirred uneasily. "What do you mean?"
she said.

"I mean we don't know if our last landing was on Stragella or Coulora. I
mean we don't know where we are or where we're going, and I don't think
Norris does either. _We're lost!_"

That was in August. By the last of September we had landed on two more
planets, to which Norris gave the simple names of R-12 and R-14. Each
had crude forms of vegetable life, represented principally by the blue
_hensorr_ trees, but in neither case did the organic surveyor reveal the
slightest traces of animal life.

There was, however, a considerable difference in physical appearance
between R-12 and R-14, and for a time that fact excited Norris
tremendously. Up to then, each successive planet, although similar in
size, had exhibited signs of greater age than its predecessor. But on
R-12 there were definite manifestations of younger geologic development.

Several pieces of shale lay exposed under a fold of igneous rock. Two of
those pieces contained fossils of highly developed _ganoids_, similar to
those found on Venus. They were perfectly preserved.

It meant that animal life had existed on R-12, even if it didn't now. It
meant that R-12, though a much older planet than Earth, was still
younger than Stragella or the rest.

For a while Norris was almost beside himself. He cut out rock samples
and carried them back to the ship. He personally supervised the tuning
of the surveyors. And when he finally gave orders to take off, he was
almost friendly to Mason, whereas before his attitude toward him had
been one of cold aloofness.

But when we reached R-14, our eighth landing, all that passed. For R-14
was old again, older than any of the others.

And then, on October sixteenth, Mason opened the door of the locked
cabin. It happened quite by accident. One of the _arelium-thaxide_
conduits broke in the _Marie Galante's_ central passageway, and the
resulting explosion grounded the central feed line of the instrument
equipment. In a trice the passageway was a sheet of flame, rapidly
filling with smoke from burning insulation.

Norris, of course, was in the bridge cuddy with locked doors between us
and him, and now with the wiring burned through there was no way of
signalling him he was wanted for an emergency. In his absence Mason took
command.

That passageway ran the full length of the ship. Midway down it was the
door leading to the women's lounge. The explosion had jammed that door
shut, and smoke was pouring forth from under the sill. All at once one
of the women rushed forward to announce hysterically that Mason's wife,
Estelle, was in the lounge.

Adjoining the lounge was a small cabin which since the beginning of our
voyage had remained locked. Norris had given strict orders that that
cabin was not to be disturbed. We all had taken it as a matter of course
that it contained various kinds of precision instruments.

Now, however, Mason realized that the only way into the lounge was by
way of that locked cabin. If he used a heat blaster on the lounge door
there was no telling what would happen to the woman inside.

He ripped the emergency blaster from its wall mounting, pressed it to
the magnetic latch of the sealed cabin door and pressed the stud. An
instant later he was leading his frightened wife, Estelle, out through
the smoke.

The fire was quickly extinguished after that and the wiring spliced.
Then when the others had drifted off, Mason called Brandt and me aside.

"We've been wondering for a long time what happened to Ganeth-Klae, the
Martian inventor who worked with Norris to invent _Indurate_," he said
very quietly. "Well, we don't need to wonder any more. He's in there."

Brandt and I stepped forward over the sill--and drew up short.
Ganeth-Klae was there all right, but he would never trouble himself
about making a voyage in a locked cabin. His rigid body was encased in a
transparent block of amber-colored solidifex, the after-death
preservative used by all Martians.

Both of us recognized his still features at once, and in addition his
name-tattoo, required by Martian law, was clearly visible on his left
forearm.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a brief instant the discovery stunned us. Klae dead? Klae whose IQ
had become a measuring guide for the entire system, whose Martian head
held more ordinary horse sense, in addition to radical postulations on
theoretical physics, than anyone on the planets. It wasn't possible.

And what was the significance of his body on Norris' ship? Why had
Norris kept its presence a secret and why had he given out the story of
Klae's disappearance?

Mason's face was cold as ice. "Come with me, you two," he said. "We're
going to get the answer to this right now."

We went along the passage to the circular staircase. We climbed the
steps, passed through the scuttle and came to the door of the bridge
cuddy. Mason drew the bar and we passed in. Norris was bent over the
chart table. He looked up sharply at the sound of our steps.

"What is the meaning of this intrusion?" he said.

It didn't take Mason long to explain. When he had finished, he stood
there, jaw set, eyes smouldering.

Norris paled. Then quickly he got control of himself, and his old bland
smile returned.

"I expected you to blunder into Klae's body one of these days," he said.
"The explanation is quite simple. Klae had been ill for many months, and
he knew his time was up. His one desire in life was to go on this
expedition with me, and he made me promise to bury him at the site of
our new colony. The pact was between him and me, and I've followed it to
the letter, telling no one."

Mason's lips curled in a sneer. "And just what makes you think we're
going to believe that story?" he demanded.

Norris lit a cigar. "It's entirely immaterial to me whether you believe
it or not."

But the story was believed, especially by the women, to whom the
romantic angle appealed and Mason's embryonic mutiny died without being
born, and the _Marie Galante_ sailed on through uncharted space toward
her ninth and last landing.

As the days dragged by and no word came from the bridge cuddy,
restlessness began to grow amongst us. Rumor succeeded rumor, each story
wilder and more incredible than the rest. Then just as the tension had
mounted to fever pitch, there came the sickening lurch and grinding
vibration of another landing.

Norris dispensed with his usual talk before marching out from the ship.
After testing the atmosphere with the ozonometer, he passed out the heat
pistols and distributed the various instruments for computing
radioactivity and cosmic radiation.

"This is the planet Nizar," he said shortly. "Largest in the field of
the sun Ponthis. You will make your survey as one group this time. I
will remain here."

He stood watching us as we marched off down the cliff side. Then the
blue _hensorr_ trees rose up to swallow him from view. Mason swung along
at the head of our column, eyes bright, a figure of aggressive action.
We had gone but a hundred yards when it became apparent that, as a
planet, Nizar was entirely different from its predecessors. There was
considerable top soil, and here grew a tall reed-shaped plant that gave
off varying chords of sound when the wind blew.

It was as if we were progressing through the nave of a mighty church
with a muted organ in the distance. There was animal life too, a strange
lizard-like bird that rose up in flocks ahead of us and flew screaming
overhead.

"I don't exactly like it, Bagley," he said. "There's something
unwholesome about this planet. The evolution is obviously in an early
state of development, but I get the impression that it has gone
backward; that the planet is really old and has reverted to its earlier
life."

Above us the sky was heavily overcast, and a tenuous white mist rising
up from the _hensorr_ trees formed curious shapes and designs. In the
distance I could hear the swashing of waves on a beach.

Suddenly Mason stopped. "Look!" he said.

Below us stretched the shore of a great sea. But it was the structure
rising up from that shore that drew a sharp exclamation from me. Shaped
in a rough ellipse, yet mounted high toward a common point, was a large
building of multiple hues and colors. The upper portion was eroded to
crumbling ruins, the lower part studded with many bas-reliefs and
triangular doorways.

"Let's go," Mason said, breaking out into a fast loping run.

The building was farther away than we had thought, but when we finally
came up to it, we saw that it was even more of a ruin than it had at
first appeared. It was only a shell with but two walls standing, alone
and forlorn. Whatever race had lived here, they had come and gone.

We prowled about the ruins for more than an hour. The carvings on the
walls were in the form of geometric designs and cabalistic symbols,
giving no clue to the city's former occupants' identity.

And then Mason found the stairs leading to the lower crypts. He switched
on his ato-flash and led the way down cautiously. Level one ... level
two ... three ... we descended lower and lower. Here water from the
nearby sea oozed in little rivulets that glittered in the light of the
flash.

We emerged at length on a wide underground plaisance, a kind of
amphitheater, with tier on tier of seats surrounding it and extending
back into the shadows.

"Judging from what we've seen," Mason said, "I would say that the race
that built this place had reached approximately a grade C-5 of
civilization, according to the Mokart scale. This apparently was their
council chamber."

"What are those rectangular stone blocks depending from the ceiling?" I
said.

Mason turned the light beam upward. "I don't know," he said. "But my
guess is that they are burial vaults. Perhaps the creatures were
ornithoid."

Away from the flash the floor of the plaisance appeared to be a great
mirror that caught our reflections and distorted them fantastically and
horribly. We saw then that it was a form of living mold, composed of
millions of tiny plants, each with an eye-like iris at its center. Those
eyes seemed to be watching us, and as we strode forward, a great sigh
rose up, as if in resentment at our intrusion.

There was a small triangular dais in the center of the chamber, and in
the middle of it stood an irregular black object. As we drew nearer, I
saw that it had been carved roughly in the shape of this central
building and that it was in a perfect state of preservation.

Mason walked around this carving several times, examining it curiously.

"Odd," he said. "It looks to be an object of religious veneration, but I
never heard before of a race worshipping a replica of their own living
quarters."

Suddenly his voice died off. He bent closer to the black stone, studying
it in the light of the powerful ato-flash. He got a small magnifying
glass out of his pocket and focused it on one of the miniature
bas-reliefs midway toward the top of the stone. Unfastening his geologic
hammer from his belt, he managed, with a sharp, swinging blow, to break
off a small protruding piece.

He drew in his breath sharply, and I saw his face go pale. I stared at
him in alarm.

"What's wrong?" I asked.

He motioned that I follow and led the way silently past the others
toward the stair shaft. Climbing to the top level was a heart-pounding
task, but Mason almost ran up those steps. At the surface he leaned
against a pillar, his lips quivering spasmodically.

"Tell me I'm sane, Bagley," he said huskily. "Or rather, don't say
anything until we've seen Norris. Come on. We've got to see Norris."

       *       *       *       *       *

All the way back to the _Marie Galante_, I sought to soothe him, but he
was a man possessed. He rushed up the ship's gangway, burst into central
quarters and drew up before Navigator Norris like a runner stopping at
the tape.

"You damned lying hypocrite!" he yelled.

Norris looked at him in his quiet way. "Take it easy, Mason," he said.
"Sit down and explain yourself."

But Mason didn't sit down. He thrust his hand in his pocket, pulled out
the piece of black stone he had chipped off the image in the cavern and
handed it to Norris.

"Take a look at that!" he demanded.

Norris took the stone, glanced at it and laid it down on his desk. His
face was emotionless. "I expected this sooner or later," he said. "Yes,
it's _Indurate_ all right. Is that what you want me to say?"

There was a dangerous fanatical glint in Mason's eyes now. With a sudden
quick motion he pulled out his heat pistol.

"So you tricked us!" he snarled. "Why? I want to know why."

I stepped forward and seized Mason's gun hand. "Don't be a fool," I
said. "It can't be that important."

Mason threw back his head and burst into an hysterical peal of laughter.
"Important!" he cried. "Tell him how important it is, Norris. _Tell
him._"

Quietly the Navigator filled and lighted his pipe. "I'm afraid Mason is
right," he said. "I did trick you. Not purposely, however. And in the
beginning I had no intention of telling anything but the truth. Actually
we're here because of a dead man's vengeance."

Norris took his pipe from his lips and stared at it absently.

"You'll remember that Ganeth-Klae, the Martian, and I worked together to
invent _Indurate_. But whereas I was interested in the commercial
aspects of that product, Klae was absorbed only in the experimental
angle of it. He had some crazy idea that it should not be given to the
general public at once, but rather should be allocated for the first few
years to a select group of scientific organizations. You see, _Indurate_
was such a departure from all known materials that Ganeth-Klae feared it
would be utilized for military purposes.

"I took him for a dreamer and a fool. Actually he was neither. How was I
to know that his keen penetrating brain had seen through my motive to
get control of all commercial marketing of _Indurate_? I had laid my
plans carefully, and I had expected to reap a nice harvest. Klae must
have been aware of my innermost thoughts, but Martian-like he said
nothing."

Norris paused to wet his lips and lean against the desk. "I didn't kill
Ganeth-Klae," he continued, "though I suppose in a court of law I would
be judged responsible for his death. The manufacture of _Indurate_
required some ticklish work. As you know, we produced our halves of the
formula separately. Physical contact with my half over a long period of
time would prove fatal, I knew, and I simply neglected to so inform
Ganeth-Klae.

"But his ultimate death was a boomerang. With Klae gone, I could find no
trace of his half of the formula. I was almost beside myself for a time.
Then I thought of something. Klae had once said that the secret of his
half of the formula lay in himself. A vague statement, to say the least.
But I took the words at their face value and gambled that he meant them
literally; that is, that his body itself contained the formula.

"I tried everything: X-ray, chemical analysis of the skin. I even
removed the cranial cap and examined the brain microscopically. All
without result. Meanwhile the police were beginning to direct their
suspicions toward me in the matter of Klae's disappearance.

"You know the rest. It was necessary that I leave Earth at once and go
beyond our system, beyond the jurisdiction of the planetary police. So I
arranged this voyage with a sufficient complement of passengers to
lessen the danger and hardship of a new life on a new world. I was still
positive, however, that Klae's secret lay in his dead body. I took that
body along, encased in the Martian preservative, solidifex.

"It was my idea that I could continue my examination once we were safe
on a strange planet But I had reckoned without Ganeth-Klae."

"What do you mean?" I said slowly.

"I said Klae was no fool. But I didn't know that with Martian stoicism
he suspected the worst and took his own ironic means of combating it. He
used the last lot of _Indurate_ to make that booster, a device which he
said would increase our take-off speed. He mounted it on the _Marie
Galante_.

"Mason, that device was no booster. It was a time machine, so devised as
to catapult the ship not into outer space, but into the space-time
continuum. It was a mechanism designed to throw the _Marie Galante_
forward into the future."

A cloud of fear began to well over me. "What do you mean?" I said again.

Navigator Norris paced around his desk. "_I mean that the_ Marie Galante
_has not once left Earth, has not in fact left the spot of its moorings
but has merely gone forward in time. I mean that the nine 'landings' we
made were not stops on some other planets but halting stages of a
journey into the future._"

Had a bombshell burst over my head the effect could have been no
greater. Cold perspiration began to ooze out on my forehead. In a flash
I saw the significance of the entire situation. That was why Norris had
been so insistent that we always return to the ship before dark. He
didn't want us to see the night sky and the constellations there for
fear we would guess the truth. That was why he had never permitted any
of us in the bridge cuddy and why he had kept all ports and observation
shields closed.

"But the names of the planets ... Coulora, Stragella, and the others and
their positions on the chart...?" I objected.

Norris smiled grimly. "All words created out of my imagination. Like the
rest of you, I knew nothing of the true action of the booster. It was
only gradually that truth dawned on me. But by the time we had made our
first 'landing' I had guessed. That was why I demanded we always take
organic surveyor readings. I knew we had traveled far into future time,
far beyond the life period of man on Earth. But I wasn't sure how far we
had gone, and I lived with the hope that Klae's booster might reverse
itself and start carrying us backwards down the centuries."

For a long time I stood there in silence, a thousand mad speculations
racing through my mind.

"How about that piece of _Indurate_?" I said at length. "It was chipped
off an image in the ruins of a great building a mile or so from here."

"An image?" repeated Norris. A faint glow of interest slowly rose in his
eyes. Then it died. "I don't know," he said. "It would seem to
presuppose that the formula, both parts of it, was known by Klae and
that he left it for posterity to discover."

All this time Mason had been standing there, eyes smouldering, lips an
ugly line. Now abruptly he took a step forward.

"I've wanted to return this for a long time," he said.

He doubled back his arm and brought his fist smashing onto Norris' jaw.
The Navigator's head snapped backward; he gave a low groan and slumped
to the floor.

And that is where, by all logic, this tale should end. But, as you may
have guessed, there is an anticlimax--what story-tellers call a happy
conclusion.

Mason, Brandt, and I worked, and worked alone, on the theory that the
secret of the _Indurate_ formula would be the answer to our return down
the time trail. We removed the body of Ganeth-Klae from its solidifex
envelope and treated it with every chemical process we knew. By sheer
luck the fortieth trial worked. A paste of carbo-genethon mixed with
the crushed seeds of the Martian iron-flower was spread over Klae's
chest and abdomen.

And there, in easily decipherable code, was not only the formula, but
the working principles of the ship's booster--or rather, time-catapult.
After that, it was a simple matter to reverse the principle and throw us
backward in the time stream.

We are heading back as I write these lines. If they reach print and you
read them, it will mean our escape was successful and that we returned
to our proper slot in the epilogue of human events.

There remains, however, one matter to trouble me. Navigator Norris. I
like the man. I like him tremendously, in spite of his cold-blooded
confession, and past record. He must be punished, of course. But I, for
one, would hate to see him given the death penalty. It is a serious
problem.




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Fantastic Universe_ September 1955.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Long Voyage, by Carl Richard Jacobi

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LONG VOYAGE ***

***** This file should be named 29742.txt or 29742.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/7/4/29742/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
