The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Big Tomorrow, by Paul Lohrman

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Big Tomorrow

Author: Paul Lohrman

Illustrator: Sanford Kossin

Release Date: September 8, 2009 [EBook #29931]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIG TOMORROW ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









[Illustration: Illustrator: Sanford Kossin]


     THE
 BIG TOMORROW

BY PAUL LOHRMAN


    _There are certain rare individuals in this world who seem bereft of
    all common sense. These are the people who set their eyes upon an
    objective and immediately all intelligence, logic, good advice,
    unsolvable problems, and insurmountable obstacles go completely by
    the boards. The characters we refer to are obviously just plain
    stupid. What they want to do, just can't be done. The objectives
    they have in mind are unachievable and anyone with an ounce of
    brains can tell them so and give them good reasons. They are usually
    pretty sad cases and often land in the funny house. But then again,
    some of them go out and discover new worlds._


He hadn't gotten any work done that morning. He'd spent most of the time
pacing the floor of his small back office, and the rest of it at the
window--hands clasped behind his somewhat bowed back--staring up into
the cloudless sky.

At ten-forty, the intercom buzzed. He snapped the switch.

"Yes?"

"I've got those figures, Mr. Lake. We have nine--"

"Maybe you'd better come in and tell me personally, Lucy."

"All right, Mr. Lake."

The intercom snapped off and a few moments later a girl entered the
office--if the prim little wisp that was Lucy Crane could be so
generously classified.

Joshua Lake stared at the elongated bun of black hair on the top of her
head as she came toward his desk. There was an odd streak of rich
imagination in Joshua Lake and he always felt Lucy Crane's bun was a
symbol of disapproval. "Sit down, Lucy. You use up too much energy."

"I try to do my job, Mr. Lake."

"You do that--and more. What are the figures, Lucy?"

"We're in desperate shape. We have nine thousand, four hundred and
twenty dollars in the payroll account. That leaves it over five thousand
short. There is only about two thousand in General Disbursements, but
that isn't enough to cover invoices due tomorrow. I'm afraid--"

"Don't be afraid, Lucy. That's negative. If we waste our time sitting
around shivering, we won't make any progress at all."

"I didn't mean it that way, Mr. Lake. I'm not shivering. I was merely
stating that we haven't got enough money."

"Then I'll go to the bank and get some more."

"Of course, Mr. Lake. Is that all?"

"Yes, that's all, Lucy. You run on to lunch."

"You aren't going out?"

"No. I'm not hungry today."

Her bun bobbed in disapproval as she left the office. Joshua Lake stared
at the closed door and sighed. Lucy knew exactly how things were. She
wasn't one to be fooled. But Joshua hoped the rest of the personnel were
not so perceptive. The engineers and the draftsmen particularly. They
could all walk out at noon and be working somewhere else by one o'clock,
what with the huge current industrial demand.

He walked again to the window; an old man; bone-weary, with the weight
of his sixty-odd years bending his shoulders like a brick-carrier's hod.

"_Then I'll go to the bank and get some more._" He hadn't even fooled
himself this time. His chances at the bank were nil. Less than nil. His
very presence there could tip the balance of their decision. Loans could
be called; the doors locked before nightfall.

At the window, he lowered his eyes from the sky and looked to the gate
that led into the horseshoe sweep of low buildings and back to the
great, bulking hangar where precious work was being done.

A man and his dream, Lake mused.

He could see only the back of the sign hanging over the gate, but he was
quite familiar with the other side. _Lake Interstellar Enterprises_ in
bold, brave letters; and in the lower right-hand corner--barely
discernible--_Joshua Lake--President_.

       *       *       *       *       *

A visitor looking closely at the sign could see that it had been done
over--that a discarded legend lay beneath a coat of white paint. The old
name of the firm was still faintly visible: _Lake and Gorman--Castings
and Extrusions_.

It wasn't difficult for Joshua to conjure up Lee Gorman's craggy,
hostile face. Nor his words. Lee had a voice like gravel being ground
to powder. A voice to remember....

"Of course I won't go along with this damn-fool idea of yours! Turn a
perfectly sound, entrenched business into a blue-sky factory? You've
gone crazy, Joshua."

"But it's feasible, Lee! Entirely feasible. All we need is a little
imagination. I've investigated. I've hired the best brains in the world.
I have all the necessary preliminary data. A rocket _can_ be built that
will take three men to the Moon and bring them back!"

"That's idiocy, Joshua!"

"Don't you believe it can be done?"

"I don't care whether it can be done or not!"

"But open your eyes, man! This is an age of development. An era of
movement. We're on the threshold of the big tomorrow, and we can't let
it pass us by! We can't let the honor and the glory go to others while
we sit on our hands and hoot from the gallery! Come alive, Lee! The
world is passing us!"

"I don't want honor and glory. All I want is a sound going business.
Suppose we could put a rocket on the Moon and bring it back? Where would
that leave us? Broke and famous. And laughed at probably in the
bargain."

"Nothing of the kind. We could write our own ticket. We'd control the
gateway to the greatest mineral deposits within reach of Man! Think of
it, Lee. Use your imagination."

"I won't go along with you, Joshua. That's all there is to it."

More of the same; days of it, and finally: "You can have the customers
then, Lee. I'll keep the plant--the physical properties."

"But that's not fair."

"Perhaps not, but it's legal."

"How can I service them--from my basement?"

"I offered you an alternative only a fool would have turned down--"

"That only a fool would accept!"

"--so now I'm going ahead and nothing can stop me. I've got a dream,
man--a dream of a big tomorrow. I'm going to make that dream come true."

"Name it right, Joshua. You've got an obsession."

The end of _Lake and Gorman_....

Joshua turned from the window, then paused and looked again into the
sky. The Moon was up, a round, white will-o'-the-wisp in the clear blue
afternoon sky. He stared at it and the old feeling of affinity swept
over him, stronger than ever. The Moon was, for him, both a goal and a
tonic. Sight of its illusive form could always sweep away his doubts;
straighten his shoulders.

The intercom buzzed. Joshua went over and snapped it. "Yes?"

"Mr. Coving to see you, sir."

"Send him in."

Rayburn Coving was probably the best rocket-fuel man in the world. He
had a little of his sandy hair left, not much, and his forehead was
permanently creased from frowning. "I'm afraid that new benzoic
derivative is a failure, Chief. It piles up corrosion in the tubes too
fast. They'd be clogged halfway through the trip."

One hundred and twenty thousand dollars up the spout. Joshua sighed.
"Well, I suppose the chance of success was worth it. The added power in
relatively smaller space would have solved so many other problems."

"I'm sorry it failed."

Joshua smiled. "To paraphrase a certain American inventor--we're finding
any number of ways you can't go to the Moon. What now, Coving?"

"Back to the old method--and the other problems. None of them are
insurmountable, though. A little more time--"

"Yes--a little more time." Joshua grimaced inwardly. He was talking to
Coving as though they had years--not as though their time had run out.
He was even in debt for Coving's labor; overdrawn on it without enough
money to pay.

The moment of weakness--of deep-down weariness--passed. Joshua Lake
stiffened as he had stiffened so many times before. As he had stiffened
when Zornoff's alloys had flunked out and the first trip to the bank had
been made necessary. The first trip to the bank. Joshua smiled wryly.
The bank people had been cordial then. Even servile. Later it had been
different. Now--

"You were saying, Mr. Lake--?"

"Have you seen Morton lately? What's the latest on the radar relay
equipment?"

"No major bugs, I think. It's coming along famously."

"Good!" For two hundred odd thousand it certainly should, Joshua felt.
"Let me know how you make out, Coving."

"I will, Chief. I'll get the order in for the new chemicals
immediately."

"Eh--oh, yes. Do that. Do that by all means."

Coving left. Joshua Lake put his head against the back rest of the chair
and closed his eyes. He dozed, drifting into a haze from weariness.
_It's been so long--so very long. Seven years--eight--ten. Ten years.
Good heavens! Was it possible? It didn't seem that long. Ten years to
make a dream succeed._

_Or fail._

Joshua slept and again--as in the past--his rest was plagued with
visions. The torment of his days took many forms in an alert
subconscious too taut to relax. He had seen before him mountains too
steep to cross--chasms too deep and wide to bridge. Often, when a great
problem was solved, he would look back, nights later, to see the
mountain or the chasm from the other side.

Now his vision was different. No mountain before him, but a face--the
stern craggy face of an obstacle in his path.

Lee Gorman.

The face was of clay--yet it lived. The eyes were cold, disdainful. And
a weird, green creation of Joshua's own mind was sketching Gorman in the
numbers, signs, and symbols of a rocket that would never reach the Moon.

Joshua awoke with a start and found Lucy bending over him. "You didn't
answer the buzzer, Mr. Lake. I was worried."

"I must have dozed off, Lucy. Sorry."

"I'm going home now--if there's nothing else."

"Nothing else. I'm going home myself. Good night."

Joshua paused beside his car in the parking lot to stare at the lighted
windows of the big hangar. The second shift had come on. They would work
all night; then, tomorrow, they would line up with the others at the pay
window. But there wouldn't be any money. The next night the hangar
windows would be dark.

He got into the car and drove home.

Myra was waiting for him. She took his hat. After he kissed her, she
said, "Your eyes are red, dear. You've been working much too hard. Shall
we have dinner in the patio?"

"That would be nice."

Joshua had little to say during the meal, and Myra was quiet
also--adjusting herself, as she had always done, to his mood. Finally,
she said, "That will be all, Bertha. Leave the coffee pot."

The maid left. A slight chill was coming in off the desert. Joshua
shivered and said, "We're through, Myra."

"Through? I don't understand."

"The Moon trip. I can't swing it. The money's run out. There's no place
I can raise another dime."

"But you've worked so hard--and so long! And you are so close to
success."

"We've made a lot of progress, but the rocket isn't ready yet. Now it's
too late."

They were silent for a time. Then Myra said, "In a way, I'm glad. You
should have stopped long ago. You aren't strong enough to stand this
pace forever. Now we can go away--get a small place somewhere. That Moon
rocket was killing you, Joshua."

Joshua pondered the point. "Killing me? No, I don't think so. I think it
has been keeping me alive."

"Don't say that, dear! You make it sound so--so brutal! Year in and
year out. Fighting disappointment--failure. Aging before my eyes while I
sit here night after night!"

_Fighting disappointment--failure._ Yes. That was the kind of fight it
had been. How many failures? The first big one had come six years
before....

"Acceleration, Monsieur, must be achieved in the first two thousand
miles of flight. After that, the speed of the ship remains constant. You
follow me?" Tardeau, the half-mad French genius had explained it so
logically. And Joshua had believed in him. That's where you made your
big gamble in a project of this kind. You selected your men and then
believed in them. Others dissented, of course. There are always
dissenters. And always points that could not be proven or disproven on
the drawing boards or in the test pits....

       *       *       *       *       *

"I follow you, Henri. The booster units will be in three sections."

"Exactly, Msieu. The primary--ah, booster, as you say, breaks free at
twelve miles. That one, and the secondary, we control with radar. We
touch a button and Voila! they are free!"

"In case of the men in the ship blacking out, I think you said."

"Exactly. But the third will be disengaged from within the ship and she
will be free as a bird to fly to your most illusive Moon!"

"And the return?"

"There we have a much lighter ship, Monsieur. The smaller boosters will
lift her easily. The return trip will be slower--much slower, but she
will return!"

Michael Bernard was the dissenter. "The Frenchman's crazy! Mad as a
hatter, Chief."

"You think it won't work, then?"

"Too damn complicated. A dozen units of time and mechanism have to mesh
perfectly. The odds are against that happening. After all, you've got to
remember, what we're attempting has never been done before."

"But if it did work--?"

"It would be a beauty."

"Better than your idea of a single booster?"

"If it worked--yes. The weight problem would be solved. Five men could
ride the rocket. But--"

"Let's try it, Mike. Let's believe in our destiny."

"Okay--you're the boss. But destiny's a hard thing to lay out and
analyze on a drawing board."

A man and his dream....

The radar equipment had failed. Burdened with the weight of exhausted
booster sections, the rocket curved back into the clutches of gravity.

It crashed on the fringe of the Amazon jungles.

Five Moon pioneers dead. Three uninsured, dependent families. Joshua
provided for them, but the critical newspapers overlooked that point.
One editorial observed that Joshua Lake would get a rocket to the Moon
and back if it took every able-bodied man in the country. The project
would have died right there if Joshua had needed money. No bank in the
nation would have loaned him a dime. Fortunately he was not yet broke.
He started over.

_Fortunately?_

       *       *       *       *       *

At times he had wondered. But always, his faith had returned to buoy him
up....

Joshua reached out and took Myra's hand. He looked up into the sky. "You
may be wrong, my dear. Possibly it's the other way. A man's ambition--"
he smiled. "Lee called it an obsession once. A man's dream can keep him
alive."

"But why does it have to be so hard? Why can't one of the big
corporations help you? They'll profit from your success!"

"At least I had no competition in the fulfillment of my dream."

They were silent for a time; then Myra said, "But now you can rest.
We'll go away. We don't need much money. We'll have a garden. You can
lie in the sun."

He laughed softly; not with humor; rather from a quiet, new-welling
courage. "We're talking as though it were all over--finished, done with.
That isn't right."

She glanced at him quickly. "But you just said--"

"I know. But I didn't really mean it that way. We aren't through yet."

"You know where you can raise--more money?"

"I know where it is. I'm going to see Lee Gorman tomorrow."

"Lee Gorman! You aren't serious."

"There's no place else to go."

"You'll be wasting your time, Joshua. He'll--he'll humiliate you."

"He probably will. And I may not get the money. But there's no place
else to go."

Tears came into Myra's eyes. "Don't do it, Joshua. Please don't do it."

"It won't be as bad as you think, dear. I guess Lee is entitled to crow
a little."

       *       *       *       *       *

Lee Gorman looked at the intercom on his desk as though it had snapped
at him. "Who?" he barked. But there had been no mistake. Gorman sat in
puzzled silence for a few moments. Then he said, "All right, show him
in."

Joshua Lake entered the office with his hat in one hand and a briefcase
in the other. He paused halfway to Gorman's desk. "You haven't changed
much, Lee."

"You have," Gorman answered. "You look like the devil."

"I've been working hard." Joshua Lake covered the intervening distance
and stood before the desk. Gorman surveyed him coldly--up and down.
Joshua looked around the office as Gorman sat silent, not inviting him
to sit down.

"You've done very well, Lee. This is the first time I've seen your
plant."

"I've expanded a little since my basement days. You remember my basement
days, don't you Joshua?"

Joshua winced. "Yes, I remember."

"And now you might tell me the purpose of this visit."

"I came to you because I need money."

Gorman's eyes snapped open--wide. He opened his mouth to speak. He
failed, tightened his throat and tried again. "You came here after
_what_?"

"Money. I'm broke, Lee. I haven't enough to meet my payroll."

"You expect me to bail you out--clean up your debts--put you clear?"

"I came after more than that. Merely bailing me out wouldn't help a bit.
I need three hundred thousand to put my rocket in the air."

Gorman collapsed gently back into his chair like a balloon mercifully
relieved of some of its content. When he spoke, it was with a slow,
controlled viciousness. "I've heard of guts, Joshua. I've heard of
gall--plain unmitigated nerve. But this tops anything--why, man, you
threw me out! You robbed me! You left me standing in the street with a
bookful of names and addresses under my arm--nothing more. Now you come
here and ask for money!"

"I'm glad you've done well, Lee. There was nothing personal in what I
did. I'm glad you've gone on to even bigger things than we would have
achieved together."

"You're glad I've done well! Why, you pious hypocrite! I ought to have
you thrown through the window instead of merely ordering you out!"

"There is no reason why I should expect any better treatment, Lee. But I
had to come here. You were my last hope. I had to ask."

Joshua turned slowly from the desk. He had taken but three steps when
Lee Gorman said, "Wait a minute. I'm curious. Are you _really_ still at
it--beating your brains out against that stone wall?"

"It's my dream, Lee. I've got to be the first man to put a rocket on the
moon."

"But now you're broke--washed up. What's with the dream now?"

"I guess it's finished." Joshua turned and took another step; but Gorman
was loath to let him go.

"Tell me," Gorman said. "What have you got in that briefcase?"

"Progress reports. Plans. I wanted to show them to you."

Gorman grinned. "All right. I've got a few minutes. Come and do it."

Joshua Lake retraced his steps. He sat down in a chair next to Gorman's
desk. He laid his hat on the desk and snapped open the case.

"No," Gorman said. "Stand here by my elbow. The chair is for people I
meet on even terms."

Joshua got obediently to his feet and placed himself as directed.

"And your hat," Gorman added. "You'd better hold that. You might forget
it when you leave."

"Of course, Lee."

It was a ludicrous, pitiful sight but, withal, a grim note ran through
the scene. Joshua supporting the case against his thigh, got out a sheaf
of papers. "These are the progress reports to date. These, the projected
plans."

"And when these plans are carried out you expect success?"

"Yes. Great foresight has been used. They will carry us through."

"And you expect me to loan you money on the strength of this--this
day-dreaming on paper?"

"It's far more than that, Lee. You'll find the plans sound."

Lee Gorman didn't give a tinker's hoot for the plans. He was only
enjoying an interview--a vengeance--he was loath to terminate. "You
haven't even begun to show me what I'd need before I even considered
loaning you a dime."

"I'll bring you anything you want."

"Even if I promise to turn you down after I've gone over it."

"You're calling the dance, Lee."

"All right--I'll call it. Bring me your payroll records; your cost
sheets; the background reports on the key men in your organization."

"As soon as I can get them. I need some money immediately to meet my
payroll."

"Then what are you waiting for?"

"I'll be back this afternoon." Joshua was halfway out the door when Lee
Gorman called. "And bring the deeds to your plant--the bills of sale to
your machinery and equipment."

"Certainly."

Joshua left and Lee Gorman sat motionless staring at the surface of his
desk. There was a Mona Lisa smile on his rugged face.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It's not worth it, Joshua," Myra said, hotly. "You won't be able to
take his brow-beating and badgering day after day. And that's his
intention. That's what he's giving you the money for--for the pleasure
of humiliating you day after day."

"Of course, my dear. I'm fortunate that Lee is that kind of a man. He
wants his revenge and he's willing to pay for it. I was hoping it would
be that way--praying for it. It was my last weapon. The last weapon I
had with which to beat the Moon."

A man and his dream....

"I want you to sign these papers, Joshua." Lee Gorman held out a pen and
pushed the papers across the desk.

"Certainly, Lee."

"Four copies."

Joshua pushed the papers back, looked at them and smiled.

"Do you know what you signed?"

"A power of attorney, I believe. And I've signed the plant over to you.
There is a large mortgage against it, however."

Lee Gorman sat back, narrowed his eyes as he looked at the wizened
little man with the giant obsession. "Joshua, I think you've worked
beyond your time. You've slipped your gears completely. Do you realize
that with these papers I can put you in the street? That all I have to
do is raise my hand and you're done?"

"I realize that, Lee."

"Then why on earth did you sign them?"

"I had no alternative."

"But what kind of an alternative is this? Giving away everything you've
got?"

Joshua sighed. "You haven't raised your hand yet, Lee. I can surmount my
difficulties only as I come to them. I'll think about that one when it
gets here."

"Well--I've got news for you. The time to think about it is--" Gorman
stopped in mid-sentence. He studied Joshua Lake for a long minute. Then
he took a checkbook from his desk and wrote rapidly. "There's money to
meet your payroll. The exact amount. Take it to the bank. Then, I want
you in this office every day at four-thirty with a complete report of
what's gone on. Don't overlook a thing. And bring any bills with you
that want paying, together with material orders and projected costs. Is
that clear?"

"I understand, Lee." At the door, Joshua Lake turned for a moment.
"And--thank you--thank you very much."

After Joshua had left, Lee Gorman pondered one of those last words. If
they contained any bitterness, it was well hidden. "A strange man,"
Gorman muttered. "A very strange man."

If that constituted a weak moment on the part of Lee Gorman, his dikes
were repaired well in time to present a hostile front....

"This twelve thousand to American Chemical--what are you doing--running
an experimental laboratory on the side. I won't pay it."

"I've never questioned Coving's judgment in these matters, Lee. He's
done brilliant work for us. The man has to have materials to work
with."

"Well, you certainly should have questioned him. He's been satisfying
every whim of curiosity that pops into his mind. Send the stuff back."

"But that would be fatal to the project. The fuel _must_ be
power-charged to safely handle the weight and time quotients. Coving
can't work with salt and baking soda."

"I don't care what he works with. Cut three thousand off that bill."

"Very well, Lee."

A man and his dream....

"This payroll's out of all reason. Cut fifteen men off immediately."

"I'll see what I can do."

"Cut fifteen men off immediately."

"Of course."

"Here's a check for the interest on the last note. Take it over to the
bank."

"Yes, Lee."

Joshua Lake came and went as directed. He stood with his hat in his
hand, took orders, carried them out. His shoulders drooped a little
more; his face became more pinched; he retreated deeper and deeper into
himself.

But as the days went on, his eyes brightened and there was a
breathlessness in his expression when he turned his face to the sky.

Some three months after the day Joshua walked into Lee's office, the
latter said, "The four men who are going with the rocket. You've
selected them?"

"Yes. They're waiting for the day. It was a long slow process, selecting
the best equipped men."

"Bring them here tomorrow afternoon."

"I'll check with them. If they all can't make it, would a later date--?"

"I said tomorrow. See to it they _can_ make it."

"Yes, Lee."

Joshua brought the four young men to Lee Gorman's office the following
day. Lee had a buffet table set up. He was the smiling, genial,
expansive host. "Sit down gentlemen. I'm glad of this opportunity to
meet you."

There were five chairs in the room. Gorman had already seated himself.
The young men hesitated.

"Sit down, sit down."

They dropped into the chairs, glancing uneasily at Joshua Lake. Joshua
turned and started toward the door.

"Don't go, Lake. I'm sure the boys would like a drink. You'll find the
fixings on the buffet. Why don't you take their orders?"

The crowning insult, Joshua wondered. The last, crude insult? Lee
Gorman's wounds must have been deep indeed. Joshua served drinks,
brought sandwiches. Lee Gorman's geniality kept the awkwardness of the
situation from bringing it to a complete standstill. "Well, Thursday is
the day, I understand. How do you feel about it? Rocketing off into
space. Becoming a part of the big tomorrow." Gorman's eyes caught those
of Joshua Lake as he spoke the last sentence. There was laughter behind
them.

The crew of the Moon rocket left shortly afterward. Joshua was the last
to walk from the room. Just as he was going through the door, Lee Gorman
whispered into his ear. "You can't be sure there'll be a rocket flight.
I might stop it the last minute. I haven't made up my mind yet."

Joshua turned and looked at his tormentor in silence. The others had
gone on down the hall. Gorman laughed and said, "I suppose that's a
problem you'll face when you come to it?"

"Yes--when I come to it."

Alone in his office, Lee Gorman strode angrily to the buffet. With a
sweep of his arm, he knocked a liquor bottle across the room. The
motivation of the act was hard to determine, however, from Gorman's
outward appearance. It could have been bitter disappointment or a
fierce joy.

       *       *       *       *       *

Joshua Lake walked into Lee Gorman's office, removed his hat and said,
"With your permission, this is the day."

"What time?"

"It translates into 4:07 and 30 seconds, Greenwich time."

Gorman scowled. "I suppose you've arranged quite a party."

"Nothing too spectacular. We'll leave for the blasting pits at 3:00
o'clock. I'd be honored if you'd ride with me."

"Do you still own a car?"

"A small one. Its value is negligible."

"We'll go in one of mine. Be here at five minutes to three."

"Certainly." Joshua put his hat on and walked out....

They rode across the Nevada desert in a black Cadillac with the
chauffeur sitting at attention and staring straight ahead. Joshua stared
straight ahead also. He asked, "Are you going to stop the flight?"

Beside him, leaning forward, clutching with both hands the silver knob
on a black mahogany cane, Gorman replied, "I haven't made up my mind
yet."

A dot on the desert expanded into a pit, a tower, and some small
buildings. The car followed the ruts of the tractors that had hauled the
rocket to the launching site, and came to a halt. "That small,
glass-encased platform," Joshua said. "We'll view the proceedings from
there."

Gorman snorted. "I'll view them from where I please."

They were standing beside the car, Joshua slightly behind his
benefactor. "From the platform."

Gorman scowled and half turned. "What are you doing?"

"I'm holding a gun against your back. It is a very small gun. No one can
see it and it probably wouldn't kill you. Then again, it might. We will
walk to the platform and stand together to watch the blast-off."

"You'd actually--_kill_, to get that ship into the air?"

"If I committed murder, I would certainly regret it the rest of my life,
but the rocket must be launched."

They stood in the glass enclosure on the platform and no one came near
them. Several people veered close and waved. Joshua waved back with his
free hand and the people went on their way.

An hour passed. There was vast activity on the field. Gorman said, "I'm
tired. I want to sit down."

"It was thoughtless of me. I should have provided chairs. It won't be
long now."

It wasn't long. Five minutes later there was a roar, an explosion of
color, and a silver rocket flash up into the sky almost faster than the
eye could follow.

Gorman slammed the heel of his hand against the side of his head in
order to restore hearing. "You can put that gun away."

"Of course. And you'll want to call the police."

Gorman growled like an annoyed bull. He jerked open the door and strode
away.

Three hours later, Joshua and Myra Lake were seated in the small patio
beside their home. They were seated very close together, and Myra was
stroking Joshua's hand. "It's been a long time, dear; a very long time."

"Yes."

"Are you happy?"

"I'm--well, satisfied--at least partially. We've passed a big milestone.
But it isn't over yet."

"You're sure this time, though?"

"Very sure."

"Thank heaven we won't have much longer to wait."

The wait was slightly less than ten minutes. Then Lee Gorman strode into
the patio. Joshua sprang to his feet. "Any news?"

"Yes."

"Then they should have phoned me. I left word to be called."

"No one could get up the courage. The rocket crashed in Canada."

Joshua swayed. When he looked at Lee, his eyes were filled with a mute
plea. "That _is_ the truth?"

"It's the truth. The first flash said it appears the tail broke off in
high space."

Joshua sank into his chair. "The crew--died?"

"Four more men sacrificed to your--" Gorman stopped and did not use the
word _obsession_. There was too much agony in Joshua's face. "I'm taking
the plant--I'm taking everything. I've got to. I've paid for them."

Lee Gorman walked from the patio. His steps echoed and died.

Joshua and Myra sat for a long time in silence. Myra was holding his
hand. Finally she spoke. "Well, at least it's over. Now you can rest.
Successful or not--you've earned it."

Joshua turned and looked into her face--looked at her as though she had
just entered. "Oh no, my dear. You certainly don't expect me to--"

"Joshua!"

"Why, I'm only sixty-three. I never felt better in my life. I have a lot
of good productive years ahead."

"_Joshua! What are you going to do?_"

"I'm going to be the first man to send a rocket to the Moon."




Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from _Amazing Stories_ Oct.-Nov. 1953.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed. Minor spelling and
    typographical errors have been corrected without note.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Big Tomorrow, by Paul Lohrman

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE BIG TOMORROW ***

***** This file should be named 29931.txt or 29931.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/2/9/9/3/29931/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Stephen Blundell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
