The Project Gutenberg EBook of To Remember Charlie By, by Roger Dee

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: To Remember Charlie By

Author: Roger Dee

Release Date: March 11, 2010 [EBook #31599]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TO REMEMBER CHARLIE BY ***




Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







                         Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from Fantastic Universe March 1954. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this
    publication was renewed.


[The history of this materialistic world is highlighted with
strange events that scientists and historians, unable to explain
logically, have dismissed with such labels as "supernatural,"
"miracle," etc. But there are those among us whose simple faith
can--and often does--alter the scheme of the universe. Even a little
child can do it....]


                        to remember charlie by


                           by ... Roger Dee


     Just a one-eyed dog named Charlie and a crippled boy named
     Joey--but between them they changed the face of the universe ...
     perhaps.

       *       *       *       *       *




I nearly stumbled over the kid in the dark before I saw him.

His wheelchair was parked as usual on the tired strip of carpet grass
that separated his mother's trailer from the one Doc Shull and I lived
in, but it wasn't exactly where I'd learned to expect it when I rolled
in at night from the fishing boats. Usually it was nearer the west end
of the strip where Joey could look across the crushed-shell square of
the Twin Palms trailer court and the palmetto flats to the Tampa
highway beyond. But this time it was pushed back into the shadows away
from the court lights.

The boy wasn't watching the flats tonight, as he usually did. Instead
he was lying back in his chair with his face turned to the sky,
staring upward with such absorbed intensity that he didn't even know I
was there until I spoke.

"Anything wrong, Joey?" I asked.

He said, "No, Roy," without taking his eyes off the sky.

For a minute I had the prickly feeling you get when you are watching a
movie and find that you know just what is going to happen next.
You're puzzled and a little spooked until you realize that the reason
you can predict the action so exactly is because you've seen the same
thing happen somewhere else a long time ago. I forgot the feeling when
I remembered why the kid wasn't watching the palmetto flats. But I
couldn't help wondering why he'd turned to watching the sky instead.

"What're you looking for up there, Joey?" I asked.

He didn't move and from the tone of his voice I got the impression
that he only half heard me.

"I'm moving some stars," he said softly.

I gave it up and went on to my own trailer without asking any more
fool questions. How can you talk to a kid like that?

Doc Shull wasn't in, but for once I didn't worry about him. I was
trying to remember just what it was about my stumbling over Joey's
wheelchair that had given me that screwy double-exposure feeling of
familiarity. I got a can of beer out of the ice-box because I think
better with something cold in my hand, and by the time I had finished
the beer I had my answer.

The business I'd gone through with Joey outside was familiar because
it _had_ happened before, about six weeks back when Doc and I first
parked our trailer at the Twin Palms court. I'd nearly stumbled over
Joey that time too, but he wasn't moving stars then. He was just
staring ahead of him, waiting.

He'd been sitting in his wheelchair at the west end of the
carpet-grass strip, staring out over the palmetto flats toward the
highway. He was practically holding his breath, as if he was waiting
for somebody special to show up, so absorbed in his watching that he
didn't know I was there until I spoke. He reminded me a little of a
ventriloquist's dummy with his skinny, knob-kneed body, thin face and
round, still eyes. Only there wasn't anything comical about him the
way there is about a dummy. Maybe that's why I spoke, because he
looked so deadly serious.

"Anything wrong, kid?" I asked.

He didn't jump or look up. His voice placed him as a cracker, either
south Georgian or native Floridian.

"I'm waiting for Charlie to come home," he said, keeping his eyes on
the highway.

Probably I'd have asked who Charlie was but just then the trailer door
opened behind him and his mother took over.

I couldn't see her too well because the lights were off inside the
trailer. But I could tell from the way she filled up the doorway that
she was big. I could make out the white blur of a cigarette in her
mouth, and when she struck a match to light it--on her thumb-nail,
like a man--I saw that she was fairly young and not bad-looking in a
tough, sullen sort of way. The wind was blowing in my direction and it
told me she'd had a drink recently, gin, by the smell of it.

"This is none of your business, mister," she said. Her voice was
Southern like the boy's but with all the softness ground out of it
from living on the Florida coast where you hear a hundred different
accents every day. "Let the boy alone."

She was right about it being none of my business. I went on into the
trailer I shared with Doc Shull and left the two of them waiting for
Charlie together.

Our trailer was dark inside, which meant first that Doc had probably
gone out looking for a drink as soon as I left that morning to pick up
a job, and second that he'd probably got too tight to find his way
back. But I was wrong on at least one count, because when I switched
on the light and dumped the packages I'd brought on the sink cabinet I
saw Doc asleep in his bunk.

He'd had a drink, though. I could smell it on him when I shook him
awake, and it smelled like gin.

Doc sat up and blinked against the light, a thin, elderly little man
with bright blue eyes, a clipped brown mustache and scanty brown hair
tousled and wild from sleep. He was stripped to his shorts against the
heat, but at some time during the day he had bathed and shaved. He had
even washed and ironed a shirt; it hung on a nail over his bunk with a
crumpled pack of cigarettes in the pocket.

"Crawl out and cook supper, Rip," I said, holding him to his end of
our working agreement. "I've made a day and I'm hungry."

Doc got up and stepped into his pants. He padded barefoot across the
linoleum and poked at the packages on the sink cabinet.

"Snapper steak again," he complained. "Roy, I'm sick of fish!"

"You don't catch sirloins with a hand-line," I told him. And because
I'd never been able to stay sore at him for long I added, "But we got
beer. Where's the opener?"

"I'm sick of beer, too," Doc said. "I need a real drink."

I sniffed the air, making a business of it. "You've had one already.
Where?"

He grinned at me then with the wise-to-himself-and-the-world grin that
lit up his face like turning on a light inside and made him different
from anybody else on earth.

"The largess of Providence," he said, "is bestowed impartially upon
sot and Samaritan. I helped the little fellow next door to the
bathroom this afternoon while his mother was away at work, and my
selflessness had its just reward."

Sometimes it's hard to tell when Doc is kidding. He's an educated
man--used to teach at some Northern college, he said once, and I never
doubted it--and talks like one when he wants to. But Doc's no bum,
though he's a semi-alcoholic and lets me support him like an invalid
uncle, and he's keen enough to read my mind like a racing form.

"No, I didn't batter down the cupboard and help myself," he said. "The
lady--her name is Mrs. Ethel Pond--gave me the drink. Why else do you
suppose I'd launder a shirt?"

That was like Doc. He hadn't touched her bottle though his insides
were probably snarled up like barbed wire for the want of it. He'd
shaved and pressed a shirt instead so he'd look decent enough to rate
a shot of gin she'd offer him as a reward. It wasn't such a doubtful
gamble at that, because Doc has a way with him when he bothers to use
it; maybe that's why he bums around with me after the commercial
fishing and migratory crop work, because he's used that charm too
often in the wrong places.

"Good enough," I said and punctured a can of beer apiece for us while
Doc put the snapper steaks to cook.

He told me more about our neighbors while we killed the beer. The
Ponds were permanent residents. The kid--his name was Joey and he was
ten--was a polio case who hadn't walked for over a year, and his
mother was a waitress at a roadside joint named the Sea Shell Diner.
There wasn't any Mr. Pond. I guessed there never had been, which would
explain why Ethel acted so tough and sullen.

We were halfway through supper when I remembered something the kid had
said.

"Who's Charlie?" I asked.

Doc frowned at his plate. "The kid had a dog named Charlie, a big
shaggy mutt with only one eye and no love for anybody but the boy. The
dog isn't coming home. He was run down by a car on the highway while
Joey was hospitalized with polio."

"Tough," I said, thinking of the kid sitting out there all day in his
wheelchair, straining his eyes across the palmetto flats. "You mean
he's been waiting a _year_?"

Doc nodded, seemed to lose interest in the Ponds, so I let the subject
drop. We sat around after supper and polished off the rest of the
beer. When we turned in around midnight I figured we wouldn't be
staying long at the Twin Palms trailer court. It wasn't a very
comfortable place.

I was wrong there. It wasn't comfortable, but we stayed.

I couldn't have said at first why we stuck, and if Doc could he didn't
volunteer. Neither of us talked about it. We just went on living the
way we were used to living, a few weeks here and a few there, all
over the States.

We'd hit the Florida west coast too late for the citrus season, so I
went in for the fishing instead. I worked the fishing boats all the
way from Tampa down to Fort Myers, not signing on with any of the
commercial companies because I like to move quick when I get restless.
I picked the independent deep-water snapper runs mostly, because the
percentage is good there if you've got a strong back and tough hands.

Snapper fishing isn't the sport it seems to the one-day tourists who
flock along because the fee is cheap. You fish from a wide-beamed old
scow, usually, with hand-lines instead of regular tackle, and you use
multiple hooks that go down to the bottom where the big red ones are.
There's no real thrill to it, as the one-day anglers find out quickly.
A snapper puts up no more fight than a catfish and the biggest job is
to haul out his dead weight once you've got him surfaced.

Usually a pro like me sells his catch to the boat's owner or to some
clumsy sport who wants his picture shot with a big one, and there's
nearly always a jackpot--from a pool made up at the beginning of every
run--for the man landing the biggest fish of the day. There's a knack
to hooking the big ones, and when the jackpots were running good I
only worked a day or so a week and spent the rest of the time lying
around the trailer playing cribbage and drinking beer with Doc Shull.

Usually it was the life of Riley, but somehow it wasn't enough in this
place. We'd get about half-oiled and work up a promising argument
about what was wrong with the world. Then, just when we'd got life
looking its screwball funniest with our arguments one or the other of
us would look out the window and see Joey Pond in his wheelchair,
waiting for a one-eyed dog named Charlie to come trotting home across
the palmetto flats. He was always there, day or night, until his
mother came home from work and rolled him inside.

It wasn't right or natural for a kid to wait like that for anything
and it worried me. I even offered once to buy the kid another mutt but
Ethel Pond told me quick to mind my own business. Doc explained that
the kid didn't want another mutt because he had what Doc called a
psychological block.

"Charlie was more than just a dog to him," Doc said. "He was a sort of
symbol because he offered the kid two things that no one else in the
world could--security and independence. With Charlie keeping him
company he felt secure, and he was independent of the kids who could
run and play because he had Charlie to play with. If he took another
dog now he'd be giving up more than Charlie. He'd be giving up
everything that Charlie had meant to him, then there wouldn't be any
point in living."

I could see it when Doc put it that way. The dog had spent more time
with Joey than Ethel had, and the kid felt as safe with him as he'd
have been with a platoon of Marines. And Charlie, being a one-man dog,
had depended on Joey for the affection he wouldn't take from anybody
else. The dog needed Joey and Joey needed him. Together, they'd been a
natural.

At first I thought it was funny that Joey never complained or cried
when Charlie didn't come home, but Doc explained that it was all a
part of this psychological block business. If Joey cried he'd be
admitting that Charlie was lost. So he waited and watched, secure in
his belief that Charlie would return.

The Ponds got used to Doc and me being around, but they never got what
you'd call intimate. Joey would laugh at some of the droll things Doc
said, but his eyes always went back to the palmetto flats and the
highway, looking for Charlie. And he never let anything interfere with
his routine.

That routine started every morning when old man Cloehessey, the
postman, pedaled his bicycle out from Twin Palms to leave a handful of
mail for the trailer-court tenants. Cloehessey would always make it a
point to ride back by way of the Pond trailer and Joey would stop him
and ask if he's seen anything of a one-eyed dog on his route that day.

Old Cloehessey would lean on his bike and take off his sun helmet and
mop his bald scalp, scowling while he pretended to think.

Then he'd say, "Not today, Joey," or, "Thought so yesterday, but this
fellow had two eyes on him. 'Twasn't Charlie."

Then he'd pedal away, shaking his head. Later on the handyman would
come around to swap sanitary tanks under the trailers and Joey would
ask him the same question. Once a month the power company sent out a
man to read the electric meters and he was part of Joey's routine too.

It was hard on Ethel. Sometimes the kid would dream at night that
Charlie had come home and was scratching at the trailer ramp to be let
in, and he'd wake Ethel and beg her to go out and see. When that
happened Doc and I could hear Ethel talking to him, low and steady,
until all hours of the morning, and when he finally went back to sleep
we'd hear her open the cupboard and take out the gin bottle.

But there came a night that was more than Ethel could take, a night
that changed Joey's routine and a lot more with it. It left a mark
you've seen yourself--everybody has that's got eyes to see--though
you never knew what made it. Nobody ever knew that but Joey and Ethel
Pond and Doc and me.

Doc and I were turning in around midnight that night when the kid sang
out next door. We heard Ethel get up and go to him, and we got up too
and opened a beer because we knew neither of us would sleep any more
till she got Joey quiet again. But this night was different. Ethel
hadn't talked to the kid long when he yelled, "Charlie! _Charlie!_"
and after that we heard both of them bawling.

A little later Ethel came out into the moonlight and shut the trailer
door behind her. She looked rumpled and beaten, her hair straggling
damply on her shoulders and her eyes puffed and red from crying. The
gin she'd had hadn't helped any either.

She stood for a while without moving, then she looked up at the sky
and said something I'm not likely to forget.

"Why couldn't You give the kid a break?" she said, not railing or
anything but loud enough for us to hear. "You, up there--what's
another lousy one-eyed mutt to You?"

Doc and I looked at each other in the half-dark of our own trailer.
"She's done it, Roy," Doc said.

I knew what he meant and wished I didn't. Ethel had finally told the
kid that Charlie wasn't coming back, not ever.

That's why I was worried about Joey when I came home the next evening
and found him watching the sky instead of the palmetto flats. It meant
he'd given up waiting for Charlie. And the quiet way the kid spoke of
moving the stars around worried me more, because it sounded outright
crazy.

Not that you could blame him for going off his head. It was tough
enough to be pinned to a wheelchair without being able to wiggle so
much as a toe. But to lose his dog in the bargain....

I was on my third beer when Doc Shull rolled in with a big package
under his arm. Doc was stone sober, which surprised me, and he was hot
and tired from a shopping trip to Tampa, which surprised me more. It
was when he ripped the paper off his package, though, that I thought
he'd lost his mind.

"Books for Joey," Doc said. "Ethel and I agreed this morning that the
boy needs another interest to occupy his time now, and since he can't
go to school I'm going to teach him here."

He went on to explain that Ethel hadn't had the heart the night
before, desperate as she was, to tell the kid the whole truth. She'd
told him instead, quoting an imaginary customer at the Sea Shell
Diner, that a tourist car with Michigan license plates had picked
Charlie up on the highway and taken him away. It was a good enough
story. Joey still didn't know that Charlie was dead, but his waiting
was over because no dog could be expected to find his way home from
Michigan.

"We've got to give the boy another interest," Doc said, putting away
the books and puncturing another beer can. "Joey has a remarkable
talent for concentration--most handicapped children have--that could
be the end of him if it isn't diverted into safe channels."

I thought the kid had cracked up already and said so.

"Moving _stars_?" Doc said when I told him. "Good Lord, Roy--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Ethel Pond knocked just then, interrupting him. She came in and had a
beer with us and talked to Doc about his plan for educating Joey at
home. But she couldn't tell us anything more about the kid's new
fixation than we already knew. When she asked him why he stared up at
the sky like that he'd say only that he wants something to remember
Charlie by.

It was about nine o'clock, when Ethel went home to cook supper. Doc
and I knocked off our cribbage game and went outside with our folding
chairs to get some air. It was then that the first star moved.

It moved all of a sudden, the way any shooting star does, and shot
across the sky in a curving, blue-white streak of fire. I didn't pay
much attention, but Doc nearly choked on his beer.

"Roy," he said, "that was Sirius! _It moved!_"

I didn't see anything serious about it and said so. You can see a
dozen or so stars zip across the sky on any clear night if you're in
the mood to look up.

"Not serious, you fool," Doc said. "The _star_ Sirius--the Dog Star,
it's called--it moved a good sixty degrees, _then stopped dead_!"

I sat up and took notice then, partly because the star really had
stopped instead of burning out the way a falling star seems to do,
partly because anything that excites Doc Shull that much is something
to think about.

We watched the star like two cats at a mouse-hole, but it didn't move
again. After a while a smaller one did, though, and later in the night
a whole procession of them streaked across the sky and fell into place
around the first one, forming a pattern that didn't make any sense to
us. They stopped moving around midnight and we went to bed, but
neither of us got to sleep right away.

"Maybe we ought to look for another interest in life ourselves instead
of drumming up one for Joey," Doc said. He meant it as a joke but it
had a shaky sound; "Something besides getting beered up every night,
for instance."

"You think we've got the d.t.'s from drinking _beer_?" I asked.

Doc laughed at that, sounding more like his old self. "No, Roy. No
two people ever had instantaneous and identical hallucinations."

"Look," I said. "I know this sounds crazy but maybe Joey--"

Doc wasn't amused any more. "Don't be a fool, Roy. If those stars
really moved you can be sure of two things--Joey had nothing to do
with it, and the papers will explain everything tomorrow."

He was wrong on one count at least.

The papers next day were packed with scareheads three inches high but
none of them explained anything. The radio commentators quoted every
authority they could reach, and astronomers were going crazy
everywhere. It just couldn't happen, they said.

Doc and I went over the news column by column that night and I learned
more about the stars than I'd learned in a lifetime. Doc, as I've said
before, is an educated man, and what he couldn't recall offhand about
astronomy the newspapers quoted by chapter and verse. They ran
interviews with astronomers at Harvard Observatory and Mount Wilson
and Lick and Flagstaff and God knows where else, but nobody could
explain why all of those stars would change position then stop.

It set me back on my heels to learn that Sirius was twice as big as
the Sun and more than twice as heavy, that it was three times as hot
and had a little dark companion that was more solid than lead but
didn't give off enough light to be seen with the naked eye. This
little companion--astronomers called it the "Pup" because Sirius was
the Dog Star--hadn't moved, which puzzled the astronomers no end. I
suggested to Doc, only half joking, that maybe the Pup had stayed put
because it wasn't bright enough to suit Joey's taste, but Doc called
me down sharp.

"Don't joke about Joey," he said sternly. "Getting back to
Sirius--it's so far away that its light needs eight and a half years
to reach us. That means it started moving when Joey was only eighteen
months old. The speed of light is a universal constant, Roy, and
astronomers say it can't be changed."

"They said the stars couldn't be tossed around like pool balls, too,"
I pointed out. "I'm not saying that Joey really moved those damn
stars, Doc, but if he did he could have moved the light along with
them, couldn't he?"

But Doc wouldn't argue the point. "I'm going out for air," he said.

I trailed along, but we didn't get farther than Joey's wheelchair.

There he sat, tense and absorbed, staring up at the night sky. Doc and
I followed his gaze, the way you do automatically when somebody on the
street ahead of you cranes his neck at something. We looked up just
in time to see the stars start moving again.

The first one to go was a big white one that slanted across the sky
like a Roman candle fireball--_zip_, like that--and stopped dead
beside the group that had collected around Sirius.

Doc said, "There went Altair," and his voice sounded like he had just
run a mile.

That was only the beginning. During the next hour forty or fifty more
stars flashed across the sky and joined the group that had moved the
night before. The pattern they made still didn't look like anything in
particular.

I left Doc shaking his head at the sky and went over to give Joey, who
had called it a night and was hand-rolling his wheelchair toward the
Pond trailer, a boost up the entrance ramp. I pushed him inside where
Doc couldn't hear, then I asked him how things were going.

"Slow, Roy," he said. "I've got 'most a hundred to go, yet."

"Then you're really moving those stars up there?"

He looked surprised. "Sure, it's not so hard once you know how."

The odds were even that he was pulling my leg, but I went ahead anyway
and asked another question.

"I can't make head or tail of it, Joey," I said. "What're you making
up there?"

He gave me a very small smile.

"You'll know when I'm through," he said.

I told Doc about that after we'd bunked in, but he said I should not
encourage the kid in his crazy thinking. "Joey's heard everybody
talking about those stars moving, the radio newscasters blared about
it, so he's excited too. But he's got a lot more imagination than most
people, because he's a cripple, and he could go off on a crazy tangent
because he's upset about Charlie. The thing to do is give him a
logical explanation instead of letting him think his fantasy is a
fact."

Doc was taking all this so hard--because it was upsetting things he'd
taken for granted as being facts all his life, like those astronomers
who were going nuts in droves all over the world. I didn't realize how
upset Doc really was, though, till he woke me up at about 4:00 A.M.

"I can't sleep for thinking about those stars," he said, sitting on
the edge of my bunk. "Roy, I'm _scared_."

That from Doc was something I'd never expected to hear. It startled me
wide enough awake to sit up in the dark and listen while he unloaded
his worries.

"I'm afraid," Doc said, "because what is happening up there isn't
right or natural. It just can't be, yet it is."

It was so quiet when he paused that I could hear the blood swishing in
my ears. Finally Doc said, "Roy, the galaxy we live in is as
delicately balanced as a fine watch. If that balance is upset too far
our world will be affected drastically."

Ordinarily I wouldn't have argued with Doc on his own ground, but I
could see he was painting a mental picture of the whole universe
crashing together like a Fourth of July fireworks display and I was
afraid to let him go on.

"The trouble with you educated people," I said, "is that you think
your experts have got everything figured out, that there's nothing in
the world their slide-rules can't pin down. Well, I'm an illiterate
mugg, but I know that your astronomers can measure the stars till
they're blue in the face and they'll never learn who _put_ those stars
there. So how do they know that whoever put them there won't move them
again? I've always heard that if a man had faith enough he could move
mountains. Well, if a man has the faith in himself that Joey's got
maybe he could move stars, too."

Doc sat quiet for a minute.

"'_There are more things, Horatio...._'" he began, then laughed. "A
line worn threadbare by three hundred years of repetition but as apt
tonight as ever, Roy. Do you really believe Joey is moving those
stars?"

"Why not?" I came back. "It's as good an answer as any the experts
have come up with."

Doc got up and went back to his own bunk. "Maybe you're right. We'll
find out tomorrow."

And we did. Doc did, rather, while I was hard at work hauling red
snappers up from the bottom of the Gulf.

       *       *       *       *       *

I got home a little earlier than usual that night, just before it got
really dark. Joey was sitting as usual all alone in his wheelchair. In
the gloom I could see a stack of books on the grass beside him, books
Doc had given him to study. The thing that stopped me was that Joey
was staring at his feet as if they were the first ones he'd ever seen,
and he had the same look of intense concentration on his face that I'd
seen when he was watching the stars.

I didn't know what to say to him, thinking maybe I'd better not
mention the stars. But Joey spoke first.

"Roy," he said, without taking his eyes off his toes, "did you know
that Doc is an awfully wise man?"

I said I'd always thought so, but why?

"Doc said this morning that I ought not to move any more stars," the
kid said. "He says I ought to concentrate instead on learning how to
walk again so I can go to Michigan and find Charlie."

For a minute I was mad enough to brain Doc Shull if he'd been handy.
Anybody that would pull a gag like that on a crippled, helpless
kid....

"Doc says that if I can do what I've been doing to the stars then it
ought to be easy to move my own feet," Joey said. "And he's right,
Roy. So I'm not going to move any more stars. I'm going to move my
feet."

He looked up at me with his small, solemn smile. "It took me a whole
day to learn how to move that first star, Roy, but I could do this
after only a couple of hours. Look...."

And he wiggled the toes on both feet.

It's a pity things don't happen in life like they do in books, because
a first-class story could be made out of Joey Pond's knack for moving
things by looking at them. In a book Joey might have saved the world
or destroyed it, depending on which line would interest the most
readers and bring the writer the fattest check, but of course it
didn't really turn out either way. It ended in what Doc Shull called
an anticlimax, leaving everybody happy enough except a few astronomers
who like mysteries anyway or they wouldn't be astronomers in the first
place.

The stars that had been moved stayed where they were, but the pattern
they had started was never finished. That unfinished pattern won't
ever go away, in case you've wondered about it--it's up there in the
sky where you can see it any clear night--but it will never be
finished because Joey Pond lost interest in it when he learned to walk
again.

Walking was a slow business with Joey at first because his legs had
got thin and weak--partially atrophied muscles, Doc said--and it took
time to make them round and strong again. But in a couple of weeks he
was stumping around on crutches and after that he never went near his
wheelchair again.

Ethel sent him to school at Sarasota by bus and before summer vacation
time came around he was playing softball and fishing in the Gulf with
a gang of other kids on Sundays.

School opened up a whole new world to Joey and he fitted himself into
the routine as neat as if he'd been doing it all his life. He learned
a lot there and he forgot a lot that he'd learned for himself by being
alone. Before we realized what was happening he was just like any
other ten-year-old, full of curiosity and the devil, with no more
power to move things by staring at them than anybody else had.

I think he actually forgot about those stars along with other things
that had meant so much to him when he was tied to his wheelchair and
couldn't do anything but wait and think.

For instance, a scrubby little terrier followed him home from Twin
Palms one day and Ethel let him keep it. He fed the pup and washed it
and named it Dugan, and after that he never said anything more about
going to Michigan to find Charlie. It was only natural, of course,
because kids--normal kids--forget their pain quickly. It's a sort of
defense mechanism, Doc says, against the disappointments of this life.

When school opened again in the fall Ethel sold her trailer and got a
job in Tampa where Joey could walk to school instead of going by bus.
When they were gone the Twin Palms trailer court was so lonesome and
dead that Doc and I pulled out and went down to the Lake Okechobee
country for the sugar cane season. We never heard from Ethel and Joey
again.

We've moved several times since; we're out in the San Joaquin Valley
just now, with the celery croppers. But everywhere we go we're
reminded of them. Every time we look up at a clear night sky we see
what Doc calls the Joey Pond Stellar Monument, which is nothing but a
funny sort of pattern roughed in with a hundred or so stars of all
sizes and colors.

The body of it is so sketchy that you'd never make out what it's
supposed to be unless you knew already what you were looking for. To
us the head of a dog is fairly plain. If you know enough to fill in
the gaps you can see it was meant to be a big shaggy dog with only one
eye.

Doc says that footloose migratories like him and me forget old
associations as quick as kids do--and for the same good reason--so I'm
not especially interested now in where Ethel and Joey Pond are or how
they're doing. But there's one thing I'll always wonder about, now
that there's no way of ever knowing for sure.

I wish I'd asked Joey or Ethel, before they moved away, how Charlie
lost that other eye.

       *       *       *       *       *






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of To Remember Charlie By, by Roger Dee

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TO REMEMBER CHARLIE BY ***

***** This file should be named 31599.txt or 31599.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/5/9/31599/

Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
