The Project Gutenberg EBook of Jimsy and the Monsters, by Walt Sheldon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Jimsy and the Monsters

Author: Walt Sheldon

Release Date: March 21, 2010 [EBook #31716]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JIMSY AND THE MONSTERS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Katherine Ward and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









  Science fiction, in collaboration with the idea-men and
  technicians of Hollywood, has been responsible for many horrors,
  dating back to "The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari" and "The Lost World."
  But Hollywood has created one real-life horror that tops all
  creations of fantasy--the child star. In this story we at last see
  such a brat meet Things from Alien Space.




jimsy and the monsters

by ... Walt Sheldon

  Hollywood could handle just about anything--until Mildume's
  machine brought in two real aliens.


Mr. Maximilian Untz regarded the monsters with a critical eye. Script
girls, cameramen, sometimes even stars quailed under Mr. Untz's
critical eye--but not these monsters. The first had a globelike head
and several spidery legs. The second was willowy and long-clawed. The
third was covered with hair. The prop department had outdone itself.

"Get Jimsy," said Mr. Untz, snapping his fingers.

A young earnest assistant producer with a crew cut turned and relayed
the summons. "Jimsy--Jimsy LaRoche!" Down the line of cables and
cameras it went. _Jimsy_ ... _Jimsy_....

A few moments later, from behind the wall flat where he had been
playing canasta with the electricians, emerged Jimsy LaRoche, the
eleven-year-old sensation. He took his time. He wore powder-blue
slacks and a sports shirt and his golden hair was carefully ringleted.
He was frowning. He had been interrupted with a meld of a hundred and
twenty.

"Okay, so what is it now?" he said, coming up to Mr. Untz.

Mr. Untz turned and glared down at the youth. Jimsy returned the
glare. There was a sort of cold war between Mr. Untz and Master Jimsy
LaRoche, the sort you could almost hear hotting up. Mr. Untz pointed
to the monsters. "Look, Jimsy. Look at them. What do you think?" He
watched the boy's expression carefully.

Jimsy said, "To use one of your own expressions, Max--_pfui_. They
wouldn't scare a mouse." And then Jimsy shrugged and walked away.

Mr. Untz turned to his assistant. "Harold," he said in an injured
tone. "You saw it. You heard it. You see what I've got to put up
with."

"Sure," said Harold Potter sympathetically. He had mixed feelings
toward Mr. Untz. He admired the producer's occasional flashes of
genius, he deplored his more frequent flashes of stupidity. On the
whole, however, he regarded himself as being on Mr. Untz's side in the
war between Mr. Untz and the world and Hollywood. He knew Mr. Untz's
main trouble.

Some years ago Maximilian Untz had been brought to Hollywood heralded
as Vienna's greatest producer of musicals. So far he had been assigned
to westerns, detectives, documentaries, a fantasy of the future--but
no musicals. And now it was a psychological thriller. Jimsy played the
killer as a boy and there was to be a dream sequence, a nightmare full
of monsters. Mr. Untz was determined it should be the most terrifying
dream sequence ever filmed.

Only up to now he wasn't doing so good.

"I would give," said Mr. Untz to Harold Potter, "my right eye for
some _really_ horrible monsters." He gestured at the world in
general. "Think of it, Harold. We got atom bombs and B-29's, both
vitamins and airplanes, and stuff to cure you of everything from
broken legs to dropsy. A whole world of modern science--but nobody
can make a fake monster. It looks anything but fake and wouldn't scare
an eleven-year-old boy."

"It's a thought," agreed Harold Potter. He had a feeling for things
scientific; he had taken a B.S. in college but had drifted into
photography and thence into movie production. He had a wife and a
spaniel and a collection of pipes and a house in Santa Monica with a
workshop basement.

"I got to do some thinking," Mr. Untz said. "I believe I will change
my clothes and take a shower. Come along to the cottage, Harold."

"Okay," said Harold. He never liked to say yes for fear of being
tagged a yes-man. Anyway, he enjoyed relaxing in the office-cottage
while Mr. Untz showered and changed, which Mr. Untz did some three or
four times a day. When he got there Mr. Untz disappeared into the
dressing-room and Harold picked up a magazine.

There was a knock on the door.

Harold got up and crossed the soft cream-colored carpet and opened the
door and saw a goat-like person.

"Yes?" said Harold.

"Mildume," said the goat-like person. "Dr. John Mildume. Don't ask a
lot of questions about how I got in. Had a hard enough time as it was.
Fortunately I have several relatives connected with the studio. That's
how I heard of your problem as a matter of fact."

"My problem?" said Harold.

Dr. Mildume pushed right in. He was no more than five feet five but
had a normal sized head. It was domelike. Wisps of tarnished white
hair curled about his ears and crown. He had an out-thrust underjaw
with a small white beard on its prow. He was dressed in moderately
shabby tweeds. He moved across the room in an energetic hopping walk
and took the place on the sofa Harold had vacated.

"Now, then, Mr. Untz," he said, "the first thing we must do is come to
terms."

"Just a minute," said Harold. "I'm Mr. Untz's assistant, Harold
Potter. Mr. Untz is in the shower. Was he expecting you?"

Dr. Mildume blinked. "No, not exactly. But he can't afford _not_ to
see me. I know all about it."

"All about what?" asked Harold.

"The beasts," the doctor said.

"The _which_?"

"Beasts, Potter," snapped the goat-like man. "The nightmare monsters.
Get with it, lad. And what is a dream sequence without them? Ha!"

"Uh--yes," said Harold a little uncertainly.

Mildume's finger shot out. "You fellows understand that I'm no
dreamy-eyed impractical scientist. Let's face it--it takes money to
carry on experiments like mine. Good old-fashioned money. I'll need at
least ten thousand dollars."

Harold raised his eyebrows. "Just what, Dr. Mildume, do you propose to
give us for ten thousand dollars?"

"Beasts," said Mildume. "_Real_ monsters."

"I beg your pardon?" said Harold. He began to work out strategies in
his mind. Maybe he could casually walk over to the phone and pick it
up quickly and call the studio police. Maybe he could get the jump on
this madman before he pulled a knife. The thing to do was to humor him
meanwhile....

Dr. Mildume said, "I will not deal with underlings. I demand to see
Mr. Untz himself."

"Well," said Harold, "you understand that Mr. Untz is a busy man. It's
my job to check propositions people have for him. Suppose you tell me
about these beasts of yours."

Mildume shrugged. "Doubt if you'll understand it any better than Untz
will. But it's no more complicated than television when you boil it
right down. You're familiar, I take it, with the basic principle of
television?"

"Oh, sure," said Harold, brightening. "Keep things moving. Have a
master of ceremonies who keeps jumping in and out of the act. Give
something away to the audience, if possible, to make them feel ashamed
not to tune in."

"No, no, no, no, _no_!" said Mildume. "I mean the technical
principles. A photo-electric beam scans the subject, translates light
and dark into electrical impulses, which eventually alter a cathode
ray played upon a fluorescent screen. Hence, the image. You grasp that
roughly, I take it?"

"Roughly," said Harold.

"Well," continued Mildume, "just as spots of light and dark are the
building blocks of an image, so sub-atomic particles are the building
blocks of matter. Once we recognize this the teleportation theory
becomes relatively simple. There are engineering difficulties, of
course.

"We must go back to Faraday's three laws of electrolysis--and
Chadwick's establishment in nineteen thirty-one of the fact that
radiation is merely the movement of particles of proton mass without
proton charge. Neutrons, you see. Also that atomic weights are close
integers, when hydrogen is one point zero zero eight. Thus I use
hydrogen as a basis. Simple, isn't it?"

Harold frowned. "Wait a minute. What's this you're talking
about--_teleportation_? You mean a way of moving matter through space,
just as television moves an image through space?"

"Well, not precisely," said Mildume. "It's more a duplication of
matter. My Mildume beam--really another expression of the quanta or
light energy absorbed by atoms--scans and analyzes matter. The wave
variations are retranslated into form, or formulae, at a distant
point--the receiving point."

Harold lowered one eyebrow. "And this really works?"

"Of course," said Mildume. "Oh, it's still crude. It doesn't work all
the time. It works only along vast distances. I won't announce it
until I perfect it further. Meanwhile I need more money to carry
on and when, through certain relatives, I heard of Mr. Untz's
problem--well, it was simply too much to resist. You see, I've
managed to teleport a couple of frightful monsters from somewhere
out of space. I was wondering what on earth to do with them."

"Where--where are they?" asked Harold.

"In my back yard," said Dr. Mildume.

At that point Mr. Maximilian Untz abruptly reappeared. He smelled of
lotion and he was now dressed in a relatively conservative gabardine
of forest green with a lavender shirt and a black knitted tie.

"Hello," he said. He looked at Mildume. "So who is this?"

"He says he has monsters for the dream sequence in his back yard,"
explained Harold. "_Real_ ones."

"Look," said Mr. Untz, "kindly ask the gentleman to get lost, will
you, Harold?"

"No, wait," Harold said. "He may have something. He explained some of
it to me. It sounds almost possible. We can't lose much by taking a
look."

"Only a few thousand dollars a minute," said Mr. Untz.

"_Bah--money!_" said Dr. Mildume. "Which reminds me--these monsters of
mine are going to cost you. Let's have that understood, right now."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Untz's eyebrows went up. This kind of talk he understood. He
reached into the side pocket of the gabardine for his cigarette case.
He kept a separate gold case in each suit.

"_Yeeeeow!_" said Mr. Untz.

His hand came out of the pocket with a small green snake in it.

"Drop it! Stand back!" said Harold, being cool.

"Don't worry about it," said Dr. Mildume in a calmer voice. He was
blinking mildly at the snake. "It's merely an ordinary species of
garden snake, sometimes erroneously called garter snake. Curious it
should be there."

Harold looked at Dr. Mildume sharply. "This teleportation of yours
wouldn't have anything to do with it by any chance?"

"Of course not," snapped Mildume.

"_I_ know how it got here!" said Mr. Untz, his jowls trembling. He had
already dropped the snake. "A certain child star whose initials are
Jimsy LaRoche! Last week he gives me a hotfoot. Monday a wet
seat--soaked newspapers in my chair under one thin dry one. Yesterday
a big frog in my shower. I should take that brat over my knee and
spank him to his face!"

"Mm--ah--of course," said Dr. Mildume without much interest in the
topic. "Shall we go to inspect the monsters now?"

Mr. Untz thought it over, only long enough to keep himself within the
time limits of a Man of Decision. Then he said, "Okay, so we'll go
now."

They passed Jimsy LaRoche on the way out. He was drinking pineapple
juice and sitting with his tutor, studying his lines. He smirked as
Mr. Untz passed. Mr. Untz scowled back but didn't say anything. In
Jovian silence he led the way to his car.

It turned out to be a longer ride than they had expected. Dr. Mildume
lived in Twenty-nine Palms and, as Mr. Untz explained it, this was too
short for an airplane and too long for an automobile. Mr. Untz was
not in his best humor when they stopped before Dr. Mildume's stucco
and tile-roof house.

Mildume directed them immediately to a walled-in patio in the rear of
the place. A shed-roof covered one side of the patio and under it were
racks of equipment. Harold recognized banks of relays, power
amplifiers, oscillographs and some other familiar devices. There were
also some strange ones.

Mildume waved his long fingers at all of it. "My teleportation set-up
is entirely too bulky so far for practical use, as you can see."

"Nph," said Mr. Untz, eyeing it. During the drive Dr. Mildume and
Harold had explained more to him about teleportation and the monsters
and he was more doubtful than ever about the whole thing. "So let's
see the monsters," he said now. "Time is fleeing."

Mildume went in his hopping step across the patio to a huge tarpaulin
that covered something square and bulky. He worried the tarpaulin
away. Two steel cages stood there.

"Sacred carp!" said Mr. Untz.

Two _somethings_ were in the steel cages.

They were both iridescent greenish-gray in color, they had globular
bodies, no discernible heads and eyes on stalks growing from their
bodies. Three eyes apiece. If they _were_ eyes--anyway, they looked
like eyes. Sweeping fibrillae came down to the ground and seemed to
serve as feet. Great saw-toothed red gashes in the middle of each body
might have been mouths.

"They're--they're _real_. They're _alive_!" said Harold Potter
hoarsely. That was the thing about them. They had the elusive quality
of life about them--and of course they were thus infinitely more
terrifying than the prop department's fake monsters.

"They're alive all right," said Dr. Mildume chattily. "Took me quite a
bit of experimenting to discover what to feed them. They like
glass--broken glass. They're evidently a silicon rather than a carbon
form of life."

"This I'll buy," said Mr. Untz, still staring.

"Of course," said Mildume. "I knew you would. They will cost you
exactly ten thousand dollars per day. Per twenty-four hour period."

"Profiteer--burglar!" said Mr. Untz, glaring at Mildume.

Mildume shrugged.

There was an abrupt, high-pitched squeak. Harold stared at the
monsters. The smaller one was quivering.

"They do that when they're angry," Dr. Mildume said. "Some sort of
skin vibration. This smaller one here seems to take the initiative in
things. Must be a male. Unless there's female dominance, as in birds
of prey, wherever these things come from. I've--uh--been unable to
ascertain which is which, if any."

Mr. Untz frowned suddenly. "Look--just how dangerous are these
things?"

"Don't know _exactly_," said Dr. Mildume. "A pigeon got too near the
cages the other day. They seemed to enjoy it. Although, as I say,
their staple appears to be silicon forms. I carelessly set a Weston
analyzer too near them the other day and they had it for lunch."

"If they're too dangerous ..." began Mr. Untz.

"What if they are?" said Mildume. "You make pictures with wild lions
and tigers and alligators, don't you? Seems to me you can find a way.
I don't recommend letting them out of the cage however."

Mr. Untz nodded and said, "Well, maybe we can get Etienne Flaubert to
do something with them. He's the animal trainer we call on. Anyway
Untz always figures something out. Only that's why I like musicals
better. There isn't so much to figure out and you can play Victor
Herbert backwards and get new tunes out of him. So anyway, we'll get a
truck and get these monsters to the studio right away."

It was arranged. It was arranged with utmost secrecy too. There were
other studios, after all, and in spite of their wealth of creative
talent it was easier to steal an idea than cook up a new one. Atom
bomb secrecy descended upon the Crusader Pictures lot and most
especially upon Sound Stage Six, where the dream sequence for the
psychological thriller, "Jolt!" was being filmed.

Even Jimsy LaRoche, the star of the picture, was excluded from the big
barn-like stage. Mr. Untz prepared to get his first stock shots of the
beasts.

There were gasps and much popping of eyebrows when Dr. Mildume--who
had come along as technical adviser--removed the tarpaulins from the
cages. The cameramen, the grips, the electricians, the sound men--all
stared unbelievingly. The script girl grabbed Mr. Untz's hand and dug
her fingernails into it. The makeup stylist clutched the lapels of his
mauve jacket and fainted.

"Nothing to be afraid of," Mr. Untz said to everybody. He was sort of
convincing himself too. "Dr. Mildume here knows all about the
monsters. He's got everything under control. So tell everybody about
them, Doctor."

Mildume nodded, bobbing his short white beard. He thrust his hands
into his tweed jacket, looked all around for a moment, then said, "I
don't know exactly where the monsters are from. I had my Q-beam
pointed into space, and I was focussing it, intending to put it on
Mars at the time of proper conjunction. All very complicated. However
the beam must have worked prematurely. These monsters began to form in
the hydrogen chamber."

Several of the listeners looked at other listeners with unmistakable
doubt. Unruffled, Dr. Mildume went on, "Now, we can make certain rough
assumptions from the form and structure of these monsters. You will
notice that except for their appendages they are globularly formed.
Any engineer can tell you that the arch and hemisphere sustain the
greatest weight for their mass.

"We may concede that they come from a planet of very strong gravity.
Their skin, for instance, is tough and rigid compared with ours. They
have difficulty staying rooted to earth--often a simple multipod
movement will send them bouncing to the top of the cage. There is one
other factor--the smaller of these creatures seems the more
dominant--suggesting that on their home planet smaller beings are more
agile and therefore better able to take care of themselves."

"There, you see?" interrupted Mr. Untz, slipping into a pause. "That's
all there is to it. So now let us please get down to business."

So they got down to business. And it was not easy business,
photographing these monsters. Keeping the cage wires out of focus
required a critical distance for each lens but whenever a camera came
too near a fibrilla would shoot forward--at the glass, no doubt--and
scare the wits out of the cameramen.

The shorter lenses got too much of the surrounding area into the
picture. The crew tried and tried. One technician muttered darkly that
the organization contract didn't cover this sort of thing. Mr. Untz
pleaded and cajoled and heckled and moved about and tried to keep
things going. Somehow, anyhow.

Eddie Tamoto, the chief cameraman, finally came up to him and said,
"It's no use, Max. These cages simply don't allow us to do anything.
Why don't we put them in the cages they use for jungle pictures?
They're big and camouflaged, and the mesh size is right."

"So maybe we'll have to do that," said Mr. Untz.

Dr. Mildume dipped his head. "I don't know. I'd like to see these
other cages first."

"Look," said Mr. Untz. "Don't worry about it. If they hold lions they
will hold your whatever-you-call-thems. I'll get the animal trainer,
Flaubert, to stand by. He practically talks to animals--except horses,
which is his hard luck."

The jungle cages were duly summoned and so was Etienne Flaubert of the
Golden West Animal Education Studios on Sunset Boulevard. While they
waited Mr. Untz stood aside with Harold Potter. He mopped his brow--he
gestured at the whole group. "This," he said, "is the story of my
life."

"It is?" asked Harold.

Mr. Untz nodded. "Me, I am an expert on musicals. Musicals I can do
with my left hand. But ever since I am in Hollywood I do everything
_but_ a musical. And always something gets fouled up. Always there is
trouble. You will not believe this, Harold, but I am an unhappy man."

"I believe it," said Harold.

Mr. Untz looked at him sharply and said, "You don't have to believe it
so quickly. You could give me a chance to explain."

"Look," said Harold--now being truly interested and forgetting some of
the first principles of buttering-up one's boss, "take the scientific
attitude. Everything is _relative_."

"Yes," said Mr. Untz, "In Hollywood everything is relatives, believe
me."

"No, no--I wasn't referring to nepotism," said Harold. "I was thinking
that you and many others, of course, prefer musicals. But there are
vast other groups who prefer westerns, detectives, comedies or what
have you. One man's meat is another's poison.

"But nourishment stays the same in principle. The artistic demands
still hold and a good picture is a picture, whatever its field. Now,
if you, as a producer, can shift to the other fellow's viewpoint--find
out why the thing that terrifies you amuses him--or vice versa."

"Harold," said Mr. Untz, not without suspicion, "are you an assistant
producer or a philosopher?"

"Sometimes to be the one," sighed Harold, "you have to be the other."

The big jungle cage arrived presently. While it was being set up
another assistant came to Mr. Untz and said, "Jimsy LaRoche is
outside, yelling to get in, Mr. Untz."

Mr. Untz whirled on the assistant and said, "Tell that overpaid
brat--who I personally didn't want in my picture in the first
place--tell him in the second place the President of the United States
could not get in here this afternoon. No, wait a minute, that wouldn't
mean anything to him--he makes more money than the President. Just
tell him no."

"Yes, sir," said the assistant. He left.

About then the animal trainer, Etienne Flaubert, was admitted. He
walked right up to Mr. Untz. Flaubert was nearly seven feet tall. He
had tremendous shoulders and none of it was coat padding. He had a
chest one might have gone over Niagara Falls in. He had a huge golden
beard. When he spoke it sounded like the bass viol section of the Los
Angeles Symphony tuning up.

He said to Mr. Untz, "Where are these monsters I hear about? I'd like
to see the monster that isn't just a big kitty, like all the rest. Big
kitties, that's all they are. You gotta know how to handle them."

Mr. Untz led Flaubert to the cage and said, "There."

Flaubert gasped. Then he steadied himself. The monsters had been
maneuvered into the bigger cage by now--Dr. Mildume had enticed them
with broken electric light bulbs and slammed the drop-doors behind
them by a remote-control rope. They had finished their meal of glass.
They were curled in a corner of the cage now, tentacles wrapped about
each other, squeaking contentedly.

Flaubert recovered a bit.

"Kitties, just big kitties," he growled.

Eddie Tamoto called, "Hey, Max, we'd like to get 'em in the center of
the cage for a shot." He was gesturing from the camera boom seat.
"Only moving around. You know--looking fierce."

"Can you do it, Flaubert?" said Mr. Untz, turning to the big trainer.

"Just big kitties," said Flaubert.

He had brought his own whip and blank cartridge pistol. His assistant
stood by with a .30-30 rifle. Dr. Mildume opened the door quickly and
Flaubert slipped into the cage.

"Okay--get set, everybody!" yelled Mr. Untz. People scurried. An
attendant switched on the warning light and rocker arm that warned
people outside of the stage not to barge in. "Quiet!" yelled Mr. Untz.
"Quiet--_quiet_!" yelled several assistants. The order went down the
line. Through channels.

And there stood Etienne Flaubert, huge and more or less unafraid, in
the middle of the cage. The monsters in the corner began slowly to
uncoil their tentacles from about each other. Their eye-stalks rose
and began to wave slowly. Their red saw-toothed mouths worked into
pouts, gapes and grins.

The smaller of the two suddenly shuddered all over. Its angry
chirping noise shrilled through the sound stage. Its tough skin
vibrated--blurred. It sprang suddenly to its multipods and charged
Flaubert.

Flaubert screamed an unholy scream. He threw the chair and the whip
and the gun at the monster and dove from the exit. Dr. Mildume opened
the cage door with his rope and Flaubert went through it--himself a
blur. The monster, in his wake, slammed into the door and stayed
there, trembling, still chirping its rage.

"Hully gee, what kitties!" said Flaubert, pale and sweating.

Mr. Untz groaned.

"I got some of it!" yelled Eddie Tamoto from his camera. "It was
terrific! But we need more!"

Then--simultaneously--there were several loud screams of alarm. Mr.
Untz looked at the cage again. The smaller monster had found a crack,
and was moving the cage door and squeezing through.

"Harold!" shouted Mr. Untz. "_Do something!_"

Harold stepped forward. "Back everybody," he said in his best calm
voice. "Walk--do not run--to the nearest exit."

The second monster was already vibrating across the cage and the
smaller one was holding the door open for it. Dr. Mildume had tried to
maneuver the control ropes to close the door again, but hadn't been
able to work them--and now he had left his post.

Harold pointed to the man with the rifle and said, "Fire!"

The rifleman fired.

Nothing--nothing at all happened. He fired several times more. The
monsters didn't even jerk when the bullets hit them.

"They're--they're impervious yet!" cried Mr. Untz.

After that it was every man for himself.

Moments later Harold found himself outside of the sound stage and on
the studio street, bunched with the others and staring at the thick
closed door. Nobody spoke. Everybody just thrummed silently with the
knowledge that two alien monsters were in there, wreaking heaven knew
what damage....

And then, as they stared, the thick door began to open again. "It
isn't locked!" breathed Mr. Untz. "Nobody remembered to lock it
again!"

A tentacle peeked out of the crack of the door.

Everybody scattered a second time.

Harold never remembered the order in which things happened amidst the
confusion that followed. It seemed he and Mr. Untz ran blindly, side
by side, down the studio street for awhile. It seemed all kinds of
people were also running, in all kinds of directions.

Bells were ringing--sirens blew--a blue studio police car took a
corner on two wheels and barely missed them. Harold had a glimpse of
uniformed men with drawn pistols.

They ended up somehow at Mr. Untz's office-cottage. They went inside
and Mr. Untz locked the door and slammed his back to it. He leaned
there, panting. He said, "Trouble, trouble, trouble. I should have
stayed in Vienna. And in Vienna I should have stood in bed."

The door of the shower and dressing-room opened and Jimsy LaRoche came
out. He had a number of snails in his out-stretched hand and he coolly
kept them there, making no attempt to conceal his obvious purpose in
the shower. He looked directly at Mr. Untz with his dark disconcerting
eleven-year-old eyes and said, "Well, Max, what goof-off did you pull
this time?"

"_You!_" roared Mr. Untz, whirling and shooting a finger at the child
star. A focusing point for all his troubles, at last. His jowls shook.
"You, Jimsy LaRoche," he said, "are going to get your first old
fashioned spanking on the bottom! From me, personally!" He advanced
toward the boy, who backed away hastily.

Jimsy began to look a little frightened.

"Now wait a minute, Max," said Harold, stepping forward. "We've got
enough _big_ monsters to think about without worrying about this
_little_ monster too."

Mr. Untz stared at Harold queerly. Suddenly he said, "Why didn't I
think of it before?"

"Think of what?" asked Harold.

But Mr. Untz had already grabbed Jimsy LaRoche's hand and dragged him
through the door.

There were several reasons why Harold Potter did not immediately
pursue. For one thing he stood there for several moments stupified
with surprise. Then, when he did recover, he plunged forward and
promptly tripped on the cream-colored carpet and fell flat on his
face. He tripped again going over the step to the cottage door. He
bumped into a studio policeman rounding the next corner. He snagged
his coat on a fence picket going around the corner after that. But he
kept Mr. Untz and the dragged youngster in sight.

Eventually he came to the door of Sound Stage Six.

Speaking from a police standpoint all laymen had disappeared. A ring
of studio police and firemen, along with some policemen and detectives
from the outside, had been drawn around the monsters and everybody and
his brother was shooting off pistols and rifles at them. With no
result, of course. Nor did anyone dare get too close.

Harold caught up with Mr. Untz about the time a man he recognized as a
reporter did. The reporter was stout, freckled and bespectacled.

"_Untz!_" barked the reporter, with all the power of the press in his
voice, "do you realize this is a national danger? If those monsters
can't be stopped by bullets, what will stop them? Where will it all
end? Where did they come from?"

"Look in tomorrow's paper!" growled Mr. Untz, brushing the reporter
aside. He kept Jimsy's arm in a firm grip. Jimsy was bawling at the
top of his lungs now. Mr. Untz breasted the police cordon, broke
through.

"Max! _Stop!_" shouted Harold. "Max--have you gone mad?"

Max evidently had. He moved so swiftly that everyone was too surprised
to stop him. He burst into the small human-walled arena where the two
bewildered monsters squatted and he thrust little Jimsy LaRoche out
before him--right at the monsters.

An extraordinary thing happened. The monsters suddenly began to quiver
and squeak again but this time--it was clear to the ear somehow--not
with rage, but with _fear_. Pure and terrible fear. They trained their
eye-stalks on Jimsy LaRoche, they paled to a lighter shade of brown
and green, then slowly they began to back away.

"Hold your fire, men!" called a police captain, probably just to get
into the act.

Dr. Mildume appeared again from somewhere. So did Etienne Flaubert. So
did Eddie Tamoto and some of the other technicians. They gaped and
stared.

Slowly, inexorably, using Jimsy LaRoche as his threat, Mr. Untz backed
the two monsters into the studio, and gradually to the cage. Dr.
Mildume leaped forward to shut them in once more.

And through it all Jimsy LaRoche continued to bawl at the top of his
lungs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Later, in Mr. Untz's office-cottage, Harold read the newspaper
accounts. He read every word while Mr. Untz was in the other room
taking a shower. He had to admit that Max had even thrown a little
credit his way. "My assistant, Mr. Potter," Untz was quoted as saying,
"indirectly gave me the idea when he said that one man's meat was
another man's poison.

"Dr. Mildume had already explained that the monsters came from a
high-gravity planet--that the smaller of the species evidently seemed
the more capable, and therefore the dominant one." Harold was sure now
that the statement had been polished up a bit by the publicity
department.

"The only logical assumption, then," the statement continued, "was
that small stature would dominate these life forms, rather than large
stature, as in the environment we know. They were, in other words,
terrified by tiny Jimsy LaRoche--whose latest picture, 'The Atomic
Fissionist and the Waif,' is now at your local theatre, by the way--as
an Earth-being might have been terrified by a giant!"

Mr. Untz came out of the shower at that point. He was radiant in a
canary-colored rayon sharkskin. He was rubbing his hands. He was
beaming.

"Harold," he said, "they're putting me on a musical next. I got them
twined around my little finger. Life is good. I think that screwy Dr.
Mildume was smart to send those things back out into space before they
could get to him. Otherwise we might have _had_ to put them in
pictures and with contracts yet."

"Max," said Harold, staring at him quietly.

"Yes, Harold?"

"Just answer me one thing truthfully. I swear I'll never repeat it--or
even blame you. But for my own curiosity I've got to know."

"Why certainly, Harold, what is it?"

Harold Potter swallowed hard. "Did you," he asked, "_really_ figure
out that Jimsy would scare the beasts--or were you about to _throw_
the little brat to them?"




Transcriber Notes

This etext was produced from Fantastic Universe, January 1954.
Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
copyright on this publication has been renewed.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Jimsy and the Monsters, by Walt Sheldon

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JIMSY AND THE MONSTERS ***

***** This file should be named 31716.txt or 31716.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/7/1/31716/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Katherine Ward and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
