The Project Gutenberg EBook of Big Pill, by Raymond Zinke Gallun

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Big Pill

Author: Raymond Zinke Gallun

Release Date: April 9, 2010 [EBook #31929]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BIG PILL ***




Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







                         Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from Planet Stories September 1952. Extensive
    research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this
    publication was renewed.


                               BIG PILL


                         By RAYMOND Z. GALLUN


     _Child, it was, of the now ancient H-bomb. New. Untested.
      Would its terrible power sweep the stark Saturnian moon of
      Titan from space ... or miraculously create a flourishing
      paradise-colony?_

       *       *       *       *       *




Under the glow of Saturn and his Rings, five of the airdomes of the
new colony on Titan were still inflated. They were enormous bubbles of
clear, flexible plastic. But the sixth airdome had flattened. And
beneath its collapsed roof, propped now by metal rods, a dozen men in
spacesuits had just lost all hope of rescuing the victims of the
accident.

Bert Kraskow, once of Oklahoma City, more recently a space-freighter
pilot, and now officially just a colonist, was among them. His small,
hard body sagged, as if by weariness. His lips curled. But his full
anger and bitterness didn't show.

"Nine dead," he remarked into the radio-phone of his oxygen helmet.
"No survivors." And then, inaudibly, inside his mind: "I'm a stinkin'
fool. Why didn't we act against Space Colonists' Supply Incorporated,
before this could happen?"

His gaze swung back to the great rent that had opened in a seam in the
airdome--under only normal Earthly atmospheric pressure, when it
should have been able to withstand much more. Instantly the warmed air
had rushed out into the near-vacuum of Titan, Saturn's largest moon.
Those who had been working the night-shift under the dome, to set up
prefabricated cottages, had discarded their spacesuits for better
freedom of movement. It was the regulation thing to do; always
considered safe. But they had been caught by the sudden dropping of
pressure around them to almost zero. And by the terrible cold of the
Titanian night.

For a grief-stricken second Bert Kraskow looked down again at the body
beside which he stood. You could hardly see that the face had been
young. The eyes popped. The pupils were white, like ice. The fluid
within had frozen. The mouth hung open. In the absence of normal
air-pressure, the blood in the body had boiled for a moment, before
the cold had congealed it.

"Your kid brother, Nick, eh, Bert?" an air-conditioning mechanic named
Lawler said, almost in a whisper. "About twenty years old, hunh?"

"Eighteen," Bert Kraskow answered into his helmet-phones as he spread
the youth's coat over the distorted face.

Old Stan Kraskow, metal-worker, was there, too. Bert's and Nick's dad.
He was blubbering. There wasn't much that anybody could do for him.
And for the other dead, there were other horrified mourners. Some of
them had been half nuts from homesickness, and the sight of harsh,
voidal stars, even before this tragedy had happened.

It was Lawler who first cut loose, cursing. He was a big, apish man,
with a certain fiery eloquence.

"Damned, lousy, stinkin' obsolete equipment!" he snarled. "Breathe on
it and it falls apart! Under old Bill Lauren, Space Colonists' Supply
used to make good, honest stuff. I worked with it on Mars and the
moons of Jupiter. But now look what the firm is turning out under
Trenton Lauren, old Bill's super-efficient son! He was so greedy for
quick profits in the new Titan colonization project, and so afraid of
being scooped by new methods of making these fizzled-out worlds
livable, that he didn't even take time to have his products decently
inspected! And that, after not being able to recognize progress! Hell!
Where is that dumb, crawlin' boob?"

[Illustration]

There was a moment of silence. Then somebody muttered: "Speak of the
devil!..."

       *       *       *       *       *

With eyes that had grown quietly wolfish, Bert Kraskow saw Trenton
Lauren arrive at last from the administration dome. He was plump,
maybe thirty-five, and somehow dapper even in a spacesuit. That he was
here on Titan at all, and not in a pressurized settlement on Mars, or
at the main office of his firm in Chicago, was a cocky gesture of
bravado, a leaf torn from the book of his more worthy sire, and
perhaps more particularly an attempt to counteract the consequences of
his bad business judgment, personally.

The fear of one who sees how his haste and breed can be called
punishable criminal negligence, was in his face. The things that had
been human, sprawled stiff before him, accusing him. But the worst was
the presence of those grim, silent men, who might add him forcibly to
the death-list. That moment held crystallized in it the conflict of an
urge to win vast profits, with the payment in human lives that had
been exacted this time.

Near-dead Titan was the present step in mankind's outward march of
colonial dominion toward the stars. Titan itself was rich in the
radioactive ores that has become the fuel, the moving force, not only
of the rockets of Earth's expanding space-commerce, but of the wheels
of industry and comfort at home. And richer in those elements were the
Rings of Saturn, nearby, those stupendous, whirling bands of dust,
wreckage of a broken satellite in which, as in any other planet or
moon most of those heaviest, costliest metals had originally sunk to
its center, far out of reach of mining operations. But in the Rings,
all this incalculable wealth of uranium, radium, osmium, and so forth,
not to mention millions of tons of useless gold, was uniquely exposed
as easily accessible dust.

Oh, yes. And the S.C.S.--Space Colonists' Supply--wanted its cut for
providing equipment, as received elsewhere in the past. Bert Kraskow
knew that this must remain dapper Trenton Lauren's aim, in spite of a
vast and possibly ruinous investment in manufactured goods that could
turn out to be obsolete and unmarketable, in addition to its poor
quality.

Bert studied Lauren from between narrowed eyelids, weighing his
qualities further, judging, ever predicting. Trenton Lauren might hate
himself some for the deaths that were his responsibility. Yet Bert bet
that he hated himself more for having to explain the failure of one of
his airdomes to these crude colonists. It hurt his ego. Lauren was
full of fear; he was a stuffy, visionless conservative, but he was
wily, too.

Bert saw his lips tighten, as he marshalled his forces to smooth down
the fury of the men before him.

"I'm deeply sorry that these people had to die," he said in his
high-pitched voice. "But chance-taking is part of any new
space-venture. And all who use airdomes, spacesuits, or other S.C.S.
equipment, are insured against its defective performance. Ten thousand
dollars, paid in case of death, is still a lot of money. S.C.S. has
made fine products for over forty years. No dangerous, new-fangled
ideas can yet replace them. Considering the risk inherent in space
colonization, occasional mishaps can hardly be avoided. You all know
that. Business--life--everything--is a gamble."

Sure. About chance-taking there was truth in his pompous words. But
did one buy a life with a few thousand dollars, or call money a just
penalty for obvious and deadly neglect?

Knots of muscle gathered at the angles of Lawler's square jaw. Old
Stan Kraskow stared at Lauren as if he didn't believe that anybody
could talk so stupidly.

Bert Kraskow's savage blood seethed. But when he was really sore his
tendency was to be coldly and quietly logical in his speech and
actions. The plans to change things were made. He was in on them. And
what was the use of getting into arguments that might give the enemy a
hint? Or set off violence that might spoil everything?

"Easy," he whispered. "Dad! Lawler! Don't talk. Don't start anything."

But Alice Leland Kraskow, Bert's wife, had arrived on the scene. She
was little and dark and fiery, one of the few feminine colonists yet
on Titan. In another airdome, where Bert and she had their cottage,
she had been awakened by the shouts of those who had seen the accident
take place. Donning a spacesuit, she had followed the crowd.

Being at a little distance from her, Bert had no chance to shush her
outspoken comments. And to try might have done no good, anyway. She
had truth to tell, and a woman's tongue to tell it.

"Yes, Mr. Lauren," she said pointedly. "We're all gamblers. Granted.
But you started to cheat even before you were afraid of losing. Maybe
it's time we did something about it."

Trenton Lauren looked more scared than before. But now, as two Space
Patrolmen in their silvery armor, arrived from their quarters and
stood beside him, he smiled a little.

"Madam," he drawled, "maybe I know what you mean. You want to defy the
law. Someone around here has been hoping for word from Earth that an
okay has been granted by the Safe Products Approval Board, for, shall
we say, a radically new product? Well, the optimists will wait a long
time for such approval at the S.P.A.B. The action of this invention
is, to say the least, extremely dangerous. So, if they're that
foolish, those optimists might as well go ahead with their alternate
course: To bring their deadly and spectacular innovation dramatically
into use without the stamp of safety!"

Bert's concern about his wife's outspoken challenge to Lauren was thus
suddenly diverted. His jaw hardened further. A nagging suspicion that
Trenton Lauren had found things out, was confirmed. It meant, perhaps,
that Lauren had already taken counteraction secretly.

Bert Kraskow longed to beat up Lauren in spite of the presence of the
two space policemen. But the need for immediate and better action
denied him this extravagant luxury. He went to his wife's side and
took her arm.

"Lauren," he said. "I've got a brother to bury. So discussions are
out, for now. Guys, will you bring Nick's body to my cottage? Come on,
Allie...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bert was trying very hard to slip away unobtrusively when Lauren
grinned mockingly. "Hold on, Kraskow," he snapped. "You're tangled up
in this matter, somehow. I've learned that you've already broken a
minor law by landing a ship quietly out in the deserts of Titan
without declaring its presence; a ship that can be assumed reasonably
to be freighted with lethal materials. As a dangerous individual, you
can be put under an arrest of restraint. Legal technicalities can be
disregarded in a raw colonization project where people are apt to show
hysteria, and where something like military law must be enforced for
general protection. The say-so of an old and honorable firm like S. C.
S. that you are a menace, can, I am sure, be accepted. Patrolmen, take
him!"

The cops were puzzled. They offered no immediate objection as Bert,
leading his wife, tried to pass them. But Lauren got in Bert's way to
prevent him from slipping into the glowering crowd.

Against a man in space-armor, fists weren't very effective; still Bert
had the satisfaction of giving Lauren a mighty shove that sent him
sprawling. A terrible fury was behind it. The desperation of a last
chance. Here was where he had to become completely outlaw.

Alice and he threaded their way through the crowd where the cops could
use neither their blasters nor their paralyzers, in spite of Lauren's
frantic urging to "Get them!"

Once in the clear, Bert ran with his wife. There was no question of
destination. They came to a metal shed. Inside it, beside the small
spaceboat, they found Lawler who had anticipated where Bert would go.

The two men spoke to each other with their helmet radios shut off to
avoid eaves-dropping. They clasped hands so that the sound-waves of
their voices would have a channel over which to pass, in the absence
of a sufficiently dense atmosphere.

"All of a sudden I'm a little worried, Bert," Lawler growled. "About
the Big Pill. Maybe Lauren is half right about its being so dangerous.
After all it has never been tested on a large scale before. And there
are two hundred people here on Titan. Well, you know what's got to be
done now. When you get to the _Prometheus_, tell Doc Kramer that I'm
squeezing my thumbs...."

Lawler sounded almost plaintive at the end.

Bert felt the tweak of that same worry, too, but his course was set.
He grinned in the darkness that surrounded them.

"Nuts!" he said. "Even Lauren admits that everything is a gamble,
remember? And you can pile all of the people into the space ship here
in camp, and blast off with them, and hover at a safe distance from
Titan till we're absolutely sure. I'd better hurry now, Lawler.
Lauren's cops'll be on my tail any second. Gotta go."

"With your wife along?" Lawler demanded.

"Sure," Bert answered. "Allie's a fine shot with a blaster. Often I
wish she wasn't such a good shot with her tongue. But I guess that
with Lauren she cleared the atmosphere. Right, Allie?"

With a small hand on the shoulder of each man, Alice had been
listening in. "I think so," she answered grimly. "Let's dash."

Ten seconds later Bert Kraskow and his wife went rocketing up into the
weird and glorious Titanian night, which was nearing its end. They
thought of Doc Kramer, the little physicist, waiting for them out in
the desert, in the space ship, _Prometheus_, with its terrible and
wonderful cargo. Bert thought, too, of his contact and contract with
the new colonists' supply company, which was also called Prometheus.
Yeah, Prometheus, the educator, the fire-bringing god of the ancient
Greeks. The symbol of progress. At that moment Bert Kraskow felt very
right. He'd been hired secretly to help carry the torch against the
stiff and smug forces of conservative obstructionism, with its awkward
and now antiquated methods.

Alice kept looking behind through the windows of the spaceboat's
cabin. She spoke, now, with her helmet face-window open, for there was
breathable air around them.

"I was thinking that Lauren might want us to run like this, Bert, so
that we'd lead the cops to the hiding place of the _Prometheus_. So
far there's no pursuit."

Bert growled, "I'm not worried that the Patrol boys won't be along.
What really scares me is that some of Lauren's men may already have
found the _Prometheus_. We'll just have to wait and see."

Beneath the spaceboat the desert rolled. Vast Saturn and his multiple
moons, hung against the black and all-but-airless star-curtain. Then,
all of a sudden, before the eastward hurtling craft, it was daylight,
as the tiny sun burst over the horizon. Its wan rays fell on pale,
stratified mists of air, all but frozen in the cold of night.

Those mists, cupped between the hills, were the last of Titan's
atmosphere. Once, eons ago, when monster Saturn had been hot enough to
supplement the far-off sun's heat with radiation of its own, those
hills had been, for a few brief ages, verdant with primitive, mossy
growths.

Bert followed the dry bed of an ancient river, till he came to the
rocky cleft where the _Prometheus_ had been concealed.

Just as they glimpsed the ship, Alice gave a sharp gasp, as they saw
another spaceboat dart unhurriedly away. Bert landed in the rocky
gorge, and on foot they approached the _Prometheus_ cautiously, the
blasters from the cabin of the spaceboat gripped in their gauntleted
hands.

They found the ship's airlock securely bolted. But someone had tried
to cut through its tough, heat-resistant shell with a blaster for the
metal was still hot.

"A break," Bert breathed raggedly. "We got here just in time to scare
them off.... Hey!..."

That was when they found Doc Kramer. He lay behind a boulder, a
pathetic little figure who seemed to be merely sleeping. There wasn't
a mark on him that could be easily discovered. There was no time to
figure out how he had died--by poisoned needle, overstrong paralyzer
beam, or whatever. His body, within its spacesuit, was just beginning
to develop rigor mortis.

Alice's eyes were wet, her small jaw set hard. "Your brother's death
was at least an unintentional accident caused by carelessly made
equipment, Bert," she said. "But Doc was murdered."

"Yeah," Bert grated thickly. "Only murder is awful hard to prove as
far from civilization as this. Come on, we can't do a thing about it
right now."

       *       *       *       *       *

Double rage and grief drove him on toward what he must do with greater
insistence than before. With a key from his hip-pouch, he opened the
airlock of the _Prometheus_. With great caution they went inside but
found no one in the ship.

The mood of its interior was brooding and sullen. Every cubic foot of
space not taken up by its machinery and fuel was packed with black
ingots of an alloy, a large proportion of which was fissionable metal,
quiescent now, and harmless, but under the right kind of primer,
capable of bursting into a specialized hell of energy. Five thousand
tons of the stuff, Earth-weight!

But even all this was the secondary part of the purpose for which the
_Prometheus_ had been fitted. Bert and Alice followed a narrow catwalk
to a compartment along the keel of the ship which was fitted like a
huge bomb-bay. And the monster that rested there, gripped by
mechanically operated claws, would certainly have fitted the
definition of a bomb as well as anything that had ever been made by
Earth-science. Child, it was, of the now ancient H-bomb.

It was a tapered cylinder, a hundred feet long and thirty feet thick.
For one grim, devilish moment Bert Kraskow paused to pat its flank, to
feel the solid metallic slap of its tremendous shellcase under his
palm, to be aware of the intricacies of its hidden parts: The forklike
masses of fissionable metals that could dovetail and join instantly;
the heavy-water, the lead, the steel, the beryllium.

Here was watchlike perfection and delicacy of mechanism--precision
meant to function faultlessly for but a fragment of a second, and then
to perish in a mighty and furious fulfillment. Here was the thought of
man crystallized--trying to tread a hairline past inconceivable
disaster, to the realization of a dream that was splendid.

In that moment this thing seemed the answer to all the fury of wrong
and sorrow that burned in Bert Kraskow. And the vision soared in his
mind like a legend of green fields and light. For a few seconds he was
sure, until doubt crept up again from the bottom of his brain, and
until Alice put that uncertainty into words.

"Doc is gone," she said. "Even with his expert help, using the Big
Pill would be taking a chance. Bert, do you think we can do it alone?
Will it be all right? Are you certain, Bert?"

Her large, dark eyes pleaded for reassurance.

He sighed as the strain plucked at his nerves, in spite of what he
knew of Doc Kramer's careful small-scale tests. Maybe what he felt was
just a normal suspicion of anything so new and so colossal.

"No, Allie, not _absolutely_ certain," he replied. "But how can
anybody ever be sure of anything unless they try it? Doc died for an
idea that holds tremendous hope for the good of all people who make
their living in space. He was the principal inventor, and much more
than just the boss of a new company. We aren't going to let him down.
What we're going to do is for Nick, and for everybody who ever died
violently on near-dead worlds. Lauren, and what he stands for, won't
stop us. We can radio another warning and instruct everyone on Titan
to blast off for a while."

Alice seemed to draw confidence from her husband's words. She smiled a
bit wanly. "Okay, Bert," she said. "This is also for the folks who
have gone nuts, or have just gotten terribly homesick from seeing too
much black sky of space for too long. Let's go!"

They strapped themselves to the seats in the _Prometheus_' control
room. Bert depressed the throttle. Rocket jets flamed. The rebuilt
freighter lifted heavily and gained momentum toward a speed of miles
per second. In the rear-vision screen the Kraskows saw two police
spaceboats flashing the blue signal for them to land.

Bert set the _Prometheus_ in an orbit around Titan, about a thousand
miles above the bleak and dried out surface of this Saturnian
satellite. Thus the ship became a little moon of a moon.

Alice was shouting into the mike of the large radio transmitter:
"Colonists at Camp Titan! Enter your ship! Blast into space for
safety! We are about to use the Big Pill! Colonists at Camp Titan!
Blast for safety!... Police boats, give us room! Don't interfere!..."

This was the start of wild drama. When Alice switched from
transmission to reception, the calls from the patrol craft were stern:
"Freighter _Prometheus_, this is the Space Patrol. Proceed to a
landing or we blast."

But these calls still seemed secondary, compared to other words also
coming from the receiver, like another, overlapping radio program. It
was Trenton Lauren's scared voice that spoke:

"Space Colonists' Supply, Incorporated, calling deep-space units of
patrol! Send more help to Titan! Maniac named Kraskow amuck with
freighter _Prometheus_, known to contain huge bomb! Destroy on sight:
Bomb supposed to be invention of group headed by one, Emil Kramer,
renegade scientist believed to have a grudge against S. C. S. Claims
for invention wholly extravagant and unbased. Hurry, deep-space units
of Patrol. More help! Or all of Titan will be flooded with heat and
deadly radioactivity! Hurry.... Hurry.... Hurry...."

Just then the _Prometheus_ rocked from the impact of a blaster-beam;
and though the Kraskows could not see the effect of the weapon, they
knew that there were glowing spots on their ship's tough hull. If the
Patrol boats could bear down with their beams on a particular area for
a few seconds, a mighty episode could end violently before it had a
chance to start.

Alice's small hands were on the complicated aiming and firing
mechanism of the heavy blaster, mounted externally on the hull of the
_Prometheus_.

"I'll keep the cops at a distance with a few near-misses," she said.
"Maybe they aren't too anxious to take the chance of setting off the
Big Pill, anyway. Let me worry about them, Bert. Just do what you've
got to do...."

They had shut off their radio. There was no need to listen to the
somewhat hysterical repetitions of what had come through before.

Every few moments there was a burst of humming sound as Alice fired.
Bert put additional power into the rockets to surpass fixed orbital
speed; but he held the ship to a tight curve around Titan. It was best
to cover distance as quickly as possible. In his speeding course, he
passed almost over the camp. But his purpose was to bomb a point at
antipodes from it, halfway around this Saturnian moon.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under full acceleration, the _Prometheus_ was soon nearing this
destination. To allow for the Big Pill's forward motion, imparted to
it by the ship's velocity even after release, he pressed the lever
that opened the bomb-bay doors, and then jabbed the single button that
controlled both release, and the firing of the gigantic missile's own
propulsive jets. Without those jets, considering the centrifugal force
of its vast velocity in a circular path around Titan, much
overbalancing the feebler gravitational pull of the moon, it could not
have started its fall at all. It needed jets to drive it down.

Bert jabbed the button with his eyes closed since he had no precise
target to hit. His teeth were gritted.

With the sudden loss of mass, the ship lurched. Bert had to struggle
for a moment to adjust the angle of its flaming stern-jets, and bring
it back on course. In another few seconds he cut the stern-jets out
entirely, and opened the fore-nozzles wide to check excess speed, and
reestablish the _Prometheus_ in a stable orbit around Titan. One that
could last forever without additional thrust.

"Well, the Big Pill is on its way--for better or worse," Alice
remarked. "Half of our job is done."

But time had to pass before that metal colossus could drive itself and
fall the thousand miles to the bleak, dried-out hills below. And the
space ship hurtled on, to leave the point of coming impact far beyond
the horizon. This, the Kraskows knew, was fortunate for them. The
solid bulk of Titan would be the shield between them and holocaust. No
human eyes could have looked directly on such a holocaust, at a range
of a mere thousand miles, and not be burned from their sockets.

Bert and Alice noticed that the Space Patrol craft were no longer
pursuing them. Alice switched on the radio again but only jangled
sounds came through.

"Now for the last half of our job, Allie," Bert said. "First we attach
shoulder-pack jets to our spacesuits."

This was accomplished a few seconds before the stupendous flash of the
Big Pill's explosion blazed beyond the horizon. The dark curve of
Titan's bulk was limned against thin white fire that streamed outward
toward the stars like comet's hair. The spectacle looked like a
much-enlarged color-photo of a segment of a solar eclipse. The glare
on the other side of Titan was so intense and far-reaching that the
night-portions of huge Saturn and his other satellites, and the
shadowed part of the fabulous, treasure-filled Rings, all hundreds of
thousands of miles away, registered an easily perceptible flicker.
But in airless space, of course, no sound was transmitted.

Alice's face went pale. Bert did not stop doing what must be
done--adjusting the timing system in the black case beside his pilot
seat, and looking with a final, intense glance along the cable which
led back through the hull of the ship to a silvery, pipelike thing
around which the thousands of tons of sinister black ingots were
stacked. It was the primer-cap of another kind of subatomic fury.

About the white fire beyond the horizon, hardly dimming at all after
its first dazzling flash, neither Alice nor Bert said anything. Maybe
their awe and concern were too great. But already long fingers of
incandescent gases were jetting and flowing over the hilltops, as if
to catch up with the speeding ship.

Bert Kraskow knew pretty well what was going on where the Big Pill had
struck the crust of Titan. First, there had been that stupendous
blast. Then, inconceivable blue-white incandescence, like the heart of
a star, began gnawing more gradually into the walls of the gigantic
crater that had been formed. A chain-reacting process was now
spreading through the silicates and other components of Titan's crust.
It was a blunt and terrible inferno.

But to the scientist's view, chemical compounds were being broken
apart; atoms were being shattered, and recast in new forms, as floods
of neutrons, and other basic particles raced like bullets through
their structure. On a small scale, here was something that was like
the birth of the universe.

Bert found his voice at last. "The ship is firm in its orbit around
Titan, Allie. The primer is set for thirty minutes from now. And we're
approaching position above camp again. So here's where we bail out."

The Kraskow's closed their helmet face-windows and jumped from the
airlock together. Flame-propelled by their shoulder-pack jets, they
darted downward toward the sad, rolling hills that curved away under
the weak light of the distance-shrunken sun. It was hard to believe
that eons ago, before most of Titan's air and water had leaked away
into space, those hills had been green with life.

Even with an ugly, red-lit vapor pouring and spreading over the arc of
Titan's edge, they thought of such things.

       *       *       *       *       *

Their helmet radiophones were full of static from intense
electromagnetic disturbances, so that it was hard to converse.

But presently Alice shouted: "Bert! It's funny that we don't see the
ship from camp anywhere in space. They must have gotten our warning to
blast off with everybody. Radio reception was clear as a bell,
then!... Wait! Somebody's trying to call us now...."

Bert strained his ears to penetrate the scratchy noises thrown up by
the atomic holocaust that he had set off, and hear the words spoken
blurredly by a familiar voice:

"... Bert ... Alice.... This is Lawler.... Rockets of ship won't
function.... So ... can't leave ... camp.... Two Space Patrol boats
cleared Titan with some ... women.... Too small ... few passengers....
Most ... stranded here.... Bert--what?... I think ... Lauren...."

The rest of the words were drowned in a cataract of static.

Bert gulped. His mouth tasted suddenly sour with near-panic. "Lauren,"
he grated, his voice like a file. "Again. It would be a long chance
that the ship broke down just by coincidence. He doctored those
rockets and probably got clear in his own spaceboat. Leave it to him
to make the use of the Big Pill look like disaster. And it can be
that, now, with people left in the danger zone, losing their heads,
acting foolishly."

Bert felt much more than just bitter, furious chagrin. His fellow
colonists might lose their lives. He was responsible. He had launched
a gigantic experiment recklessly.

"All we can do is get back to camp as fast as possible," Alice shouted
above the static. "Come on, Bert! Bear down on the jets!"

So they hurtled at even greater speed toward the surface of Titan
below. Meanwhile, faintly luminous vapors continued to pour over the
hills from the direction of the terrible glow that fringed the
horizon. Minutes before they reached the ground, hot, dusty murk
thickened around them. It blew against them like a devil's wind.

They began to use their jets to brake speed. The camp was all but lost
to view in the thickening haze. They landed heavily a mile outside it
and went rolling for a few yards after the impact. Dazed, they
staggered up.

For a while their impressions were blurred, as if they struggled
through some murky, cobwebby nightmare. Once more on Titan, silent as
death for unthinkable ages, there were howling wind-sounds that found
their way to Alice and Bert dimly through their oxygen helmets. Often
the hot blast bowled them over, but they arose and kept on toward
camp.

Bert took a Geiger counter, pencil-size from his chest-pouch. In it,
flashes of light replaced the ancient clicking. It flickered madly.
This meant that outside their shielding spacesuits was radioactive
death. The gases of the wind that howled around them, had been in part
released from chemical compounds, but more had been transmuted from
other elements of the rock and dust in the crust of Titan, in that
atomic vortex where the Big Pill had struck. Those gases were so new
that they were tainted with the fires of their birth--saturated with
radioactivity.

"It's nothing that we didn't expect, Allie," Bert grated into his
helmet-phone, as if to reassure himself as well as his wife. "We knew
beforehand."

His arm was around Alice, supporting her unsteady steps. Through
blowing clouds of dust and gas that had surpassed hurricane force,
they reached camp. Through the murk they saw that the wind had
flattened and scorched every airdome. But there was no one in sight.

"The people must be inside the ship!" Alice shouted. "Even if it can't
fly, it can protect them! There it is, undamaged!..."

"Yeah," Bert agreed, but he knew that her cheerfulness was a little
like grabbing at a straw.

Then Alice had another thought, "By now there isn't anymore Space Ship
_Prometheus_," she said. "It has melted to a globe of incandescent
metal, kept hot by a slow atomic breakdown in its substance. But it's
sticking to the same tight orbit around Titan."

They hadn't seen it happen because by then the _Prometheus_ had passed
beyond the horizon. But the globe would circle Titan and return.

Alice kept trying to be cheerful. Bert felt a flicker of that same
mood when he said, "Sure, Allie." But then his mind dropped the
subject of the _Prometheus_. For there was too much terrible
uncertainty and human confusion to be dealt with.

Bert led Alice to the small, seldom-used airlock near the stern of the
camp ship. He had a logical hunch that Lawler would be waiting just
inside to tell them what the situation was on board.

The hunch proved true. The lock's inner door slid aside stiffly and
there was Lawler, a finger to his lips.

Quickly the Kraskows removed their radioactivity-tainted spacesuits.
Bert spoke softly.

"Well, Lawler, how do the gases that are spreading over Titan test out
chemically?"

"As was expected, Bert. Plenty of nitrogen. Some helium. Plenty of
hydrogen. A lot more oxygen. So that, as all of the hydrogen
burns--combines with it to form water-vapor--there still will be lots
of oxygen left over, floating free. Of course these gases are still so
radioactive that half a lungful would kill. Only time will tell if Doc
figured things straight. By the way, where is he?"

"Dead," Bert answered. "Murdered."

Lawler's lip curled, but he showed no surprise. "Uhunh," he grunted.
"We can't prove the sabotage of this ship's rockets, either. When we
tried to take off they just fizzled out their insides."

Then Lawler's eyes gleamed. "But," he said, "I foresaw funny business,
so I doctored the jets of Lauren's private spaceboat as a precaution.
He's still here with a couple of his stooges. He just about had
hysterics when the space cops couldn't find room for him. He's been
yelling accusations and promises of court action ever since while
trying to repair his spaceboat."

"How are the colonists taking what happened?" Bert cut in.

Lawler shrugged. "Not bad. Not good. What you'd expect. Lots of those
people are new to space. That was hard to take in itself. Add some
messy deaths, and now this. And with Lauren yelling--well--plenty of
them don't like us."

"Did anybody get hurt, yet?" Bert demanded.

"Not yet. Want to see the bunch?"

"Sure," Bert answered.

       *       *       *       *       *

He thrust Alice behind him as they approached the main lounge of the
ship where most of the colonists were assembled.

Trenton Lauren's voice burst on his ears. "There he is! Kraskow, I'll
see that you spend your life in prison! A Patrol ship is coming out
from Mars right now to get you! You may even hang! Out there in camp
are ten million dollars' worth of equipment--property of my
firm--which has been destroyed by your malicious action. And you've
made a whole world useless for colonization for centuries to come!
It's poisoned with radioactivity! Maybe we'll all die! Do you hear me,
Kraskow? Die!"

Bert Kraskow moved quietly forward, past faces that glowered at him.
Then he struck. There was a vicious thud. Lauren went down, drooling
blood, his eyes glazed. Bert did not lose a motion as he stepped
forward, and laid Lauren's two henchmen low with equal dispatch.

Minutes passed before the trio was awake again. Before Lauren could
spout more venom, Bert stopped him with a growl. "Get out of my
sight," he said. "Say another word and you'll get more of what you
just got."

They went, Lawler following to watch out for possible mischief.

"None of us are hurt, yet," Bert told those near him, "though some
things have gone wrong. Let's sit tight and see how matters turn out."

As he looked around him Bert felt that most of the colonists didn't
really care to listen to him. Maybe you couldn't blame them. They'd
all heard and seen too much. And, in a sense, Bert felt little
different than they did. There was fear in him, and tension. He had
released a colossus. Calculations and minor tests might call it a
genie of benevolence. But this remained still unproven.

Outside, the wind howled, making the ship quiver. The glow from the
Big Pill continued to paint the now murky sky. Bert and his wife
waited grimly and silently in the lounge with the others. Hours passed
without much change. Once, briefly, it was red-lit night. Then this
changed for a while to daylight that was blurred, but far stronger
than that to which a Saturnine moon was accustomed.

A little later Lawler came back to the lounge. "Trenton and his bums
got their spaceboat patched up," he announced. "I watched 'em do it.
They went out protected by spacesuits, of course. They did a botch
job, but I guess it'll hold. Now they're taking off."

Through the leaded glass of the window-ports, the colonists watched
the craft vanish into the steam-filled wind.

A minute later disaster struck the colonists.

The explosion was not heavy against the roar of the storm, but a
jagged hole, a yard across, was ripped in the ship's hull. Into the
hole rushed the hot, radioactive wind. Automatic safety doors failed
to close properly. Maybe they had been sabotaged, too, by Lauren.

Many of the colonists were wearing spacesuits. They were the lucky
ones, only having to slam their face-windows shut to be protected
sufficiently from radiation. The others had to scramble to armor
themselves. Bert and Alice Kraskow, and Lawler, had been outside. The
outer surfaces of their suits had been contaminated, so they had had
to remove them inside the ship to avoid tainting their surroundings.
And in the press of events they hadn't thought to put on other
spacesuits.

In the lounge and elsewhere, fastened against the walls, were such
armor for emergency use. Bert tried to help his wife get into one. But
she ordered sharply: "I can do this! Take care of yourself, Bert."

He didn't do that. Nor did Lawler. They ran down a passage toward the
rent in the ship, intent on stopping the gases that were flooding the
craft's interior. Seconds were important. The radioactive wind, much
cooled during the long journey from its point of origin, but poisoned
by invisible emanations, struck their unprotected bodies. Yet they
kept on. They dared not breathe or speak; still they worked together
with an efficiency of terrible need, stepping over the forms of men
who had already fallen.

Bert found a flat sheet of metal to use as a patch. He fitted it over
the rent, and, while Lawler piled boxes of supplies against it to hold
it in place, sealed the edges with a thick, tarry substance.

When the job was done they staggered back to the lounge. Blotches of
color danced before their vision. Many corpuscles in their blood had
already been destroyed by radiation. They sank to the deck.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bert had a jangled impression of Alice, now in a spacesuit, holding
his head. He saw her lips mouthing endearments.... Game little
Allie.... His mind wandered off. He was going to die. Maybe everyone
on the ship was going to die. Lauren's last move had been meant to
provide a real disaster, with many deaths! Prove the Big Pill a
failure. Make sure that it would be banned for good by the Safe
Products Approval Board. Put the stamp of crime on Doc Kramer, the
gentle little scientist who had been murdered! And on him, Bert
Kraskow. And where was the rat, Lauren? On his way to the colonized
moons of Jupiter, or even Mars, yelling and accusing by radio all
along the line?

As consciousness faded further, Bert stopped thinking unpleasant
things. His mind drifted into Doc Kramer's dream--of the changes which
would make the near-dead worlds of space really habitable and
homelike, fit for human colonists. It was a beautiful, lost vision.

He was out cold, then, for several Earth-days, and only dimly aware
for many days afterward. He knew that he was in the ship's sick-bay,
and that Lawler and other men were there, too. He heard their voices,
and his own, without remembering what was said. Alice often came to
see him. Often he heard roaring, watery sounds, as of vast rains.

Gradually he came out of the dream-like period, learning of what had
happened. Until the time when he walked from the sick-bay, unsteadily,
but on the mend.

Alice, at his elbow, spoke: "It was like Doc Kramer planned, Bert,
solving the hardest problem."

He knew what this meant. Transmutation, or any atomic process, must
involve the generation of much radioactivity that can destroy life. In
the Big Pill, the problem was to make all the atoms break, and
rearrange their components into new elements as cleanly and sharply as
possible, so that residual atomic instability--radioactivity, that
is--would not linger for years, but would disappear quickly.

"Titan's new atmosphere is clean and breathable, now, Bert," Alice
went on. "And likewise the radioactive poisons that made you and
Lawler and the others very ill disappeared quickly from your bodies.
However, two colonists were beyond saving."

Lawler was with the Kraskows. They went out of the ship without the
cumbersome protection of spacesuits. A Space Patrolman hovered like a
worried hawk, watching Bert, but the latter seemed not to mind.

Far above, replacing the hard stars and blackness of space, common to
the firmaments of all dead and near-dead worlds, were great fleecy
clouds and blue sky. The atmosphere, because of Titan's low gravity,
was highly expanded and hence thin, but rich in oxygen. The breeze
smelled cool and fresh. Overhead was a second sun, seemingly much
larger in diameter than the distant central orb of the solar system.
It crept with visible motion across the sky. It was the molten globe
of what had been the _Prometheus_ and its cargo, locked in its
sub-lunar orbit around Titan. But it was calculated to provide
sufficient warmth and light to a small world such as this, for ten
Earth-years, without renewal.

Colonists were clearing away the wreckage of the now useless airdomes,
and putting their cottages in order. But they still looked around in
awe at the miracles that ended their space-nostalgia, making them feel
truly at home here. Down in the valley there was even a great lake of
rainwater from condensed steam--one of the end-products of the process
that had gone on in the rocks of the great crater on the other side of
Titan. That process had died to a sleepy smoking, now; but all over
this moon of Saturn there were many lakes.

Big Lawler chuckled gleefully, the sound rumbling deep in his chest.
"Rejuvenation of burnt-out spheres on a really progressive basis," he
growled. "No obsolete, jury-rigged junk! Expensive? Sure! But we can
pay for it! Out there are Saturn's metal-rich Rings!"

Bert was thinking that the same trick could be used on any world with
enough gravity to hold down a respectable atmosphere. Half-dead Mars.
Jupiter's four biggest moons. Some of the other satellites of Saturn.
Mercury.

"The one thing that burns me is that my brother, Nick, and Doc Kramer,
and those two colonists, had to die!" Bert grated. "Poor Doc. He was
rich from the atomic engines he invented. And I knew long ago that, by
his will, all his stock is to be put in trust for the welfare of
spacemen and colonists. Should we feel glad or humble?"

Lawler's grin had become a snarl. "Damn Trenton Lauren!" he said.

Alice didn't exactly smile. "I should have told you before this," she
offered seriously, "but death always upsets me. By radio report from a
scouting Patrol boat an hour ago, Lauren and his stooges were found,
smashed and burned in the crash of their craft a hundred miles from
camp. Their half-repaired spaceboat killed them."

Bert and Lawler exchanged glances. Their anger faded.

"What's new from the Safe Products Approval Board, Allie?" Lawler
asked at last. "You seem to find things out fast."

"Nothing new," she answered. "The latest messages are much the same as
those from a while ago. Guarded enthusiasm, and the statement that an
okay for the Kramer Methods must be withheld pending complete and
prompt investigation. Can't blame them. Caution is important."

"Maybe, if you played your cards right, you could become the new
president of the Prometheus outfit, Bert," Lawler kidded.

But the possibility was certainly there. Bert was proud of what he'd
done. Prometheus owed him plenty. Still, looking across camp past
cottages and shops to the red mud of the once-dry, frigid hills, and
down to the blue lake in the valley, reflecting sky and clouds, he
knew that his heart was here in this crescendoing colonial scene.
Somewhere a circle-saw screamed. From the metals-shop came the
clanging of a mechanical hammer. These were sounds of a great future
here.

"Nuts, pal," Bert chuckled to Lawler. "I'll leave the official
pencil-pushing to the lab experts. The building and progress are here.
You and Allie and I will all be back on Titan very soon."

These three began to be aware that a crowd of still befuddled but
happy colonists were gathering around them. Another Space Patrol man
approached, and said very officially:

"Mr. and Mrs. Kraskow, and Mr. Lawler: Our large ship leaves for Earth
in five hours. Be ready to blast off. As you are aware, certain still
valid charges were lodged against you by Trenton Lauren. You used
dangerous equipment, not yet legally approved. As you are also aware,
you must go to answer these charges. Sorry. But we of the Patrol know
the score. In the face of your success I'm sure that this is mere red
tape."

Bert scowled until he saw the cop's sly grin.

"Worried?" Alice asked him, smiling. She was pretty. She had courage.
She had everything.

"Worried?" Bert echoed. In general he approved the S.P.A.B. "How can
we lose on this last gamble with all the cards stacked in our favor.
We even win a needed short vacation on Earth!"

"What are you two gonna bring back for me?" an old man, grimed from
the forges, demanded, grinning. It was old Stan Kraskow, who had
buried his younger son in the camp cemetery.

"Hiyuh, Dad!" Bert greeted happily. "What'll we bring him, Allie?"

"Wildbirds, Pop," Alice answered, her eyes twinkling. "You always
liked wildbirds. No world is complete without them."

Bert noticed that the gardens of the camp, planted weeks ago under
airdomes that were now being cleared away, were now showing a faint
green. The beginning of a new and verdant Titan.

       *       *       *       *       *







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Big Pill, by Raymond Zinke Gallun

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BIG PILL ***

***** This file should be named 31929.txt or 31929.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/1/9/2/31929/

Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
