The Project Gutenberg EBook of Confidence Game, by James McKimmey

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Confidence Game

Author: James McKimmey

Release Date: May 4, 2010 [EBook #32243]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CONFIDENCE GAME ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, David Wilson and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net





  +--------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                              |
  | Transcriber's note:                                          |
  |                                                              |
  | This story was published in _If: Worlds of Science Fiction_, |
  | September, 1954. Extensive research did not uncover any      |
  | evidence that the U.S. copyright on this publication was     |
  | renewed.                                                     |
  |                                                              |
  +--------------------------------------------------------------+





[Illustration]

_Illustrated by Ed Emsh_




CONFIDENCE GAME

    _Cutter demanded more and more and more efficiency--and got it! But,
    as in anything, enough is enough, and too much is..._

By JAMES McKIMMEY, JR.




George H. Cutter wheeled his big convertible into his reserved space in
the Company parking lot with a flourish. A bright California sun drove
its early brightness down on him as he strode toward the square,
four-story brick building which said _Cutter Products, Inc._ over its
front door. A two-ton truck was grinding backward, toward the loading
doors, the thick-shouldered driver craning his neck. Cutter moved
briskly forward, a thick-shouldered man himself, though not very tall. A
glint of light appeared in his eyes, as he saw Kurt, the truck driver,
fitting the truck's rear end into the tight opening.

"Get that junk out of the way!" he yelled, and his voice roared over the
noise of the truck's engine.

Kurt snapped his head around, his blue eyes thinning, then recognition
spread humor crinkles around his eyes and mouth. "All right, sir," he
said. "Just a second while I jump out, and I'll lift it out of your
way."

"With bare hands?" Cutter said.

"With bare hands," Kurt said.

Cutter's laugh boomed, and as he rounded the front of the truck, he
struck the right front fender with his fist. Kurt roared back from the
cab with his own laughter.

He liked joking harshly with Kurt and with the rest of the truck
drivers. They were simple, and they didn't have his mental strength. But
they had another kind of strength. They had muscle and energy, and most
important, they had guts. Twenty years before Cutter had driven a truck
himself. The drivers knew that, and there was a bond between them, the
drivers and himself, that seldom existed between employer and employee.

The guard at the door came to a reflex attention, and Cutter bobbed his
head curtly. Then, instead of taking the stairway that led up the front
to the second floor and his office, he strode down the hallway to the
left, angling through the shop on the first floor. He always walked
through the shop. He liked the heavy driving sound of the machines in
his ears, and the muscled look of the men, in their coarse work shirts
and heavy-soled shoes. Here again was strength, in the machines and in
the men.

[Illustration]

And here again too, the bond between Cutter and his employees was a
thing as real as the whir and grind and thump of the machines, as real
as the spray of metal dust, spitting away from a spinning saw blade. He
was able to drive himself through to them, through the hard wall of
unions and prejudices against business suits and white collars and soft
clean hands, because they knew that at one time he had also been a
machinist and then tool and die operator and then a shop foreman. He got
through to them, and they respected him. They were even inspired by him,
Cutter knew, by his energy and alertness and steel confidence. It was
one good reason why their production continually skimmed along near the
top level of efficiency.

Cutter turned abruptly and started up the metal-lipped concrete steps to
the second floor. He went up quickly, his square, almost chunky figure
moving smoothly, and there was not the faintest shortening in his breath
when he reached the level of his own office.

Coming up the back steps required him to cross the entire administration
office which contained the combined personnel of Production Control,
Procurement, and Purchasing. And here, the sharp edge of elation,
whetted by the walk past the loading dock and the truck drivers and the
machine shop and the machinists, was dulled slightly.

On either side of him as he paced rapidly across the room, were the rows
of light-oak desks which contained the kind of men he did not like:
fragile men, whether thin or fat, fragile just the same, in the eyes and
mouth, and pale with their fragility. They affected steel postures
behind those desks, but Cutter knew that the steel was synthetic, that
there was nothing in that mimicked look of alertness and virility but
posing. They were a breed he did not understand, because he had never
been a part of them, and so this time, the invisible but very real
quality of employer-employee relationship turned coldly brittle, like
frozen cellophane.

The sounds now, the clicking of typewriters, the sliding of file
drawers, the squeak of adjusted swivel chairs--all of it--irritated him,
rather than giving him inspiration, and so he hurried his way,
especially when he passed that one fellow with the sad, frightened eyes,
who touched his slim hands at the papers on his desk, like a cautious
fawn testing the soundness of the earth in front of him. What was his
name? Linden? God, Cutter thought, the epitome of the breed, this man:
sallow and slow and so hesitant that he appeared to be about to leap
from his chair at the slightest alarm.

Cutter broke his aloofness long enough to glare at the man, and Linden
turned his frightened eyes quickly to his desk and began shuffling his
papers nervously. Some day, Cutter promised himself, he was going to
stop in front of the man and shout, "Booo!" and scare the poor devil to
hell and back.

He pushed the glass doors that led to his own offices, and moving into
Lucile's ante-room restored his humor. Lucile, matronly yet quick and
youthfully spirited, smiled at him and met his eyes directly. Here was
some strength again, and he felt the full energy of his early-morning
drive returning fully. Lucile, behind her desk in this plain but
expensive reception room, reminded him of fast, hard efficiency, the
quality of accomplishment that he had dedicated himself to.

"Goddamned sweet morning, eh, Lucy?" he called.

"Beautiful, George," she said. She had called him by his first name for
years. He didn't mind, from her. Not many could do it, but those who
could, successfully, he respected.

"What's up first?" he asked, and she followed him into his own office.
It was a high-ceilinged room, with walls bare except for a picture of
Alexander Hamilton on one wall, and an award plaque from the State
Chamber of Commerce on the opposite side of the room. He spun his
leather-cushioned swivel chair toward him and sat down and placed his
thick hands against the surface of the desk. Lucile took the only other
chair in the office, to the side of the desk, and flipped open her
appointment pad.

"Quay wants to see you right away. Says it's important."

Cutter nodded slightly and closed his eyes. Lucile went on, calling his
appointments for the day with clicking precision. He stored the
information, leaning back in his chair, adjusting his mind to each, so
that there would be no energy wasted during the hard, swift day.

"That's it," Lucile said. "Do you want to see Quay?"

"Send him in," Cutter said, and he was already leaning into his desk,
signing his name to the first of a dozen letters which he had dictated
into the machine during the last ten minutes of the preceding day.

Lucile disappeared, and three minutes later Robert Quay took her place
in the chair beside Cutter's desk. He was a taller man than Cutter, and
thinner. Still, there was an athletic grace about him, a sureness of
step and facial expression, that made it obvious that he was physically
fit. He was single and only thirty-five, twelve years younger than
Cutter, but he had been with Cutter Products, Inc. for thirteen years.
In college he had been a Phi Beta Kappa and lettered three years on the
varsity as a quarterback. He was the kind of rare combination that
Cutter liked, and Cutter had offered him more than the Chicago Cardinals
to get him at graduation.

Cutter felt Quay's presence, without looking up at him. "Goddamned sweet
morning, eh, Bob?"

"It really is, George," Quay said.

"What's up?" Cutter stopped signing, having finished the entire job, and
he stared directly into Quay's eyes. Quay met the stare unflinchingly.

"I've got a report from Sid Perry at Adacam Research."

"Your under-cover agent again, eh?"

Quay grinned. Adacam Research conducted industrial experimentation which
included government work. The only way to find out what really went on
there, Cutter had found out, was to find a key man who didn't mind
talking for a certain amount of compensation, regardless of sworn oaths
and signatures to government statements. You could always get somebody,
Cutter knew, and Quay had been able to get a young chemist, Sidney
Perry.

"Okay," Cutter said. "What are they doing over there?"

"There's a fellow who's offered Adacam his project for testing. They're
highly interested, but they're not going to handle it."

"Why not?"

Quay shrugged. "Too touchy. It's a device that's based on electronics--"

"What the hell is touchy about electronics?"

"This deals with the human personality," Quay said, as though that were
explanation enough.

Cutter understood. He snorted. "Christ, anything that deals with the
human personality scares them over there, doesn't it?"

Quay spread his hands.

"All right," Cutter said. "What's this device supposed to do?"

"The theory behind it is to produce energy units which reach a plane of
intensity great enough to affect the function of the human ego."

"Will it?" Cutter never wasted time on surprise or curiosity or theory.
His mind acted directly. Would it or wouldn't it? Performance versus
non-performance. Efficiency versus inefficiency. Would it improve
production of Cutter Products, Inc., or would it not?

"Sid swears they're convinced it will. The factors, on paper, check out.
But there's been no experimentation, because it involves the human
personality. This thing, when used, is supposed to perform a definite
personality change on the individual subjected."

"How?"

"You know the theory of psychiatric therapy--the theory of shock
treatment. The effect is some what similar, but a thousand times more
effective."

"What _is_ the effect?"

"A gradual dissolving of inferiority influences, or inhibitions, from
the personality. A clear mind resulting. A healthy ego."

"And?"

"Confidence."

Cutter stared at Quay's eyes, assimilating the information. "That's all
very damned nice. Now where does it fit in with Cutter Products?"

Quay drew a notebook from his coat pocket swiftly. "You remember that
efficiency check we had made two months ago--the rating of individual
departments on comparable work produced?"

Cutter nodded.

Quay looked at his notebook. "All administrative personnel departments
showed an average of--"

"Thirty-six point eight less efficiency than the skilled and unskilled
labor departments," Cutter finished.

Quay smiled slightly. He snapped the notebook shut. "Right. So that's
our personnel efficiency bug."

"Christ, I've known that for twenty years," Cutter snapped.

"Okay," Quay said quickly, alerting himself back to the serious effort.
"Now then, you'll remember we submitted this efficiency report to
Babcock and Steele for analysis, and their report offered no answer,
because their experience showed that you _always_ get that kind of
ratio, because of personality differences. The administrative personnel
show more inferiority influences per man, thus less confidence, thus
less efficiency."

"I remember all that," Cutter said.

"Their report also pointed out that this inevitable loss of efficiency
is leveled out, by proportionately smaller wage compensation. The
administrative personnel gets approximately twenty-five percent less
compensation than the skilled labor personnel, and the remaining eleven
point eight percent loss of efficiency is made up by the more highly
efficient unskilled labor receiving approximately the same compensation
as the administrative personnel."

"I remember all that nonsense, too," Cutter reddened faintly with a
sudden anger. He did not believe the statistics were nonsense, only that
you should expect to write off a thirty-six point eight efficiency loss
on the basis of adjusted compensation. A thirty-six point eight
efficiency loss was a comparable loss in profits. You never compensated
a loss in profits, except by erasing that loss. "And so this is supposed
to fix it?"

Quay's head bobbed. "It's worth a try, it seems to me. I've talked to
Sid about it extensively, and he tells me that Bolen, who's developed
this thing, would be willing to install enough units to cover the entire
administrative force, from the department-head level down."

"How?"

Quay motioned a hand. "It's no larger than a slightly thick saucer. It
could be put inside the chairs." Quay smiled faintly. "They sit on it,
you see, and--"

Cutter was not amused. "How much?"

"Nothing," Quay said quickly. "Absolutely nothing. Bolen wants actual
tests badly, and the Institute wouldn't do it. Snap your fingers, and
give him a hundred and fifty people to work on, and it's yours to use
for nothing. He'll do the installing, and he _wants_ to keep it secret.
It's essential, he says, to get an accurate reaction from the subjects
affected. For him it's perfect, because we're running a continuous
efficiency check, and if this thing does the job like it's supposed to
do it, we'll have gained the entire benefits for nothing. How can we
lose?"

Cutter stared at Quay for a moment, his mind working swiftly. "Call
Horner in on this, but nobody else. Absolutely nobody else. Tell Horner
to write up a contract for this fellow to sign. Get a clause in there to
the effect that this fellow, Bolen, assumes all responsibility for any
effects not designated in the defining part of the contract. Fix it up
so that he's entirely liable, then get it signed, and let's see what
happens."

Quay smiled fully and stood up. "Right, sir." He had done a good job, he
knew. This was the sort of thing that would keep him solidly entrenched
in Cutter's favor. "Right, George," he said, remembering that he didn't
need to call Cutter sir anymore, but he knew he wouldn't hear any more
from Cutter, because Cutter was already looking over a blueprint, eyes
thin and careful, mind completely adjusted to a new problem.

       *       *       *       *       *

Edward Bolen called the saucer-sized disk, the Confidet. He was a thin,
short, smiling man with fine brown hair which looked as though it had
just been ruffled by a high wind, and he moved, Cutter noticed, with
quick, but certain motions. The installing was done two nights after
Cutter's lawyer, Horner, had written up the contract and gotten it
signed by Bolen. Only Quay, Bolen, and Cutter were present.

Bolen fitted the disks into the base of the plastic chair cushions, and
he explained, as he inserted one, then another:

"The energy is inside each one, you see. The life of it is indefinite,
and the amount of energy used is proportionate to the demand created."

"What the hell do you mean by energy?" Cutter demanded, watching the
small man work.

Bolen laughed contentedly, and Quay flushed with embarrassment over
anyone laughing at a question out of Cutter's lips. But Cutter did not
react, only looked at Bolen, as though he could see somehow, beneath
that smallness and quietness, a certain strength. Quay had seen that
look on Cutter's face before, and it meant simply that Cutter would
wait, analyzing expertly in the meantime, until he found his advantage.
Quay wondered, if this gadget worked, how long Bolen would own the
rights to it.


Cutter drove the Cadillac into Hallery Boulevard, as though the
automobile were an English Austin, and just beyond the boundaries of the
city, cut off into the hills, sliding into the night and the relative
darkness of the exclusive, sparsely populated Green Oaks section.

Ten minutes later, his house, a massive stone structure which looked as
though it had been shifted intact from the center of some medieval moat,
loomed up, gray and stony, and Capra, his handyman, took over the car
and drove it into the garage, while Cutter strode up the wide steps to
the door.

Niels took his hat, and Mary was waiting for him in the library.

She was a rather large woman, although not fat, and when she wore high
heels--which she was not prone to do, because although Cutter would not
have cared, she kept trying to project into other people's minds and
trying, as she said, "Not to do anything to them, that I wouldn't want
them to do to me."--she rose a good inch above Cutter. She was pleasant
humored, and cooperative, and the one great irritant about her that
annoyed Cutter, was the fact that she was not capable of meeting life
wholeheartedly and with strength.

She steadily worried about other people's feelings and thoughts, so that
Cutter wondered if she were capable of the slightest personal
conviction. Yet that weakness was an advantage at the same time, to him,
because she worked constantly toward making him happy. The house was run
to his minutest liking, and the servants liked her, so that while she
did not use a strong enough hand, they somehow got things done for her,
and Cutter had no real complaint. Someday, he knew, he would be able to
develop her into the full potential he knew she was capable of
achieving, and then there wouldn't be even that one annoyance about her.

He sat down in the large, worn, leather chair, and she handed him a
Scotch and water, and kissed his cheek, and then sat down opposite him
in a smaller striped-satin chair.

"Did you have a nice day, dear?" she asked.

She was always pleasant and she always smiled at him, and she was
indeed a handsome woman. They had been married but five years, and she
was almost fifteen years younger than he, but they had a solid
understanding. She respected his work, and she was careful with the
money he allowed her, and she never forgot the Scotch and water. "The
day was all right," he said.

"My goodness," she said, "you worked late. Do you want dinner right
away?"

"I had some sandwiches at the office," he said, drinking slowly.

"That isn't enough," she said reproachfully, and he enjoyed her concern
over him. "You'd better have some nice roast beef that Andre did just
perfectly. And there's some wonderful dressing that I made myself, for
just a small salad."

He smiled finally. "All right," he said. "All right."

She got up and kissed him again, and he relaxed in the large chair,
sipping contentedly at his drink, listening to her footsteps hurrying
away, the sound another indication that she was doing something for him.
He felt tired and easy. He let his mind relax with his body. The gadget,
the Confidet; that was going to work, he knew. It would erase the last
important bug in his operational efficiency, and then he might even
expand, the way he had wanted to all along. He closed his eyes for a
moment, tasting of his contentment, and then he heard the sound of his
dinner being placed on the dining room table, and he stood up briskly
and walked out of the library. He really was hungry, he realized. Not
only hungry but, he thought, he might make love to Mary that evening.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first indication that the Confidet might be working, came three
weeks later, when Quay handed Cutter the report showing an efficiency
increase of 3.7 percent. "I think that should tell the story," Quay said
elatedly.

"Doesn't mean anything," Cutter said. "Could be a thousand other factors
besides that damned gimmick."

"But we've never been able to show more than one point five variance on
the administrative checks."

"The trouble with you, Quay," Cutter said brusquely, "is you keep
looking for miracles. You think the way to get things in this world is
to hope real hard. Nothing comes easy, and I've got half a notion to get
those damned silly things jerked out." He bent over his work, obviously
finished with Quay, and Quay, deflated, paced out of the office.

Cutter smiled inside the empty office. He liked to see Quay's enthusiasm
broken now and then. It took that, to mold a really good man, because
that way he assumed real strength after a while. If he got knocked down
and got up enough, he didn't fall apart when he hit a really tough
obstacle. Cutter was not unhappy about the efficiency figures at all,
and he knew as well as Quay that they were decisive.

Give it another two weeks, he thought, and if the increase was
comparable, then they might have a real improvement on their hands.
Those limp, jumpy creatures on the desks out there might actually start
earning their keep. He was thinking about that, what it would mean to
the total profit, when Lucile opened his door and he caught a glimpse of
the office outside, including the clerk with the sad, frightened eyes.
Even you, Linden, Cutter thought, we might even improve you.


The increase _was_ comparable after another two weeks. In fact, the
efficiency figure jumped to 8.9. Quay was too excited to be knocked down
this time, and Cutter was unable to suppress his own pleasure.

"This is really it this time, George," Quay said. "It really is. And
here." He handed Cutter a set of figures. "Here's what accounting
estimates the profit to be on this eight-nine figure."

Cutter nodded, his eyes thinning the slightest bit. "We won't see that
for a while."

"No," Quay said, "but we'll see it! We'll sure as hell see it! And if it
goes much higher, we'll absolutely balance out!"

"What does Bolen figure the top to be?"

"Ten percent."

"Why not thirty-six point eight?" Cutter said, his eyes bright and
narrow.

Quay whistled. "Even at ten, at the wage we're paying--"

"Never settle for quarters or thirds," Cutter said. "Get the whole
thing. Send for Bolen. I want to talk to him. And in the meantime, Bob,
this is such a goddamned sweet morning, what do you say we go to lunch
early?"

Quay blinked only once, which proved his adaptability. Cutter had just
asked him to lunch, as though it were their habit to lunch together
regularly, when in reality, Quay had never once gone to lunch with
Cutter before. Quay was quite nonchalant, however, and he said, "Why,
fine, George. I think that's a good idea."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bolen appeared in Cutter's office the next morning, smiling, his eyes
darting quickly about Cutter's desk and walls, so that Cutter felt, for
a moment, that showing Bolen anything as personal as his office, was a
little like letting the man look into his brain.

"Quay tells me you've set ten percent as the top efficiency increase we
can count on, Bolen." Cutter said it directly, to the point.

Bolen smiled, examining Cutter's hands and suit and eyes. "That's right,
Mr. Cutter."

"Why?"

Bolen placed his small hands on his lap, looked at the tapered fingers,
then up again at Cutter. He kept smiling. "It's a matter of saturation."

"How in hell could ten percent more efficiency turn into saturation?"

"Not ten percent more efficiency," Bolen said quietly. "Ten percent
_effect_ on the individual who _creates_ the efficiency. Ten percent
effect of that which _causes_ him to be ten percent more efficient."

Cutter snorted. "Whatever the hell that damned gimmick does, it creates
confidence, drive, strength, doesn't it? Isn't that what you said?"

"Yes," Bolen said politely. "Approximately."

"Can you explain to me then, how ten percent more confidence in a man is
saturation?"

Bolen studied what he was going to say carefully, smiling all the while.
"Some men," he said very slowly, "are different than others, Mr. Cutter.
Some men will react to personality changes as abrupt as this in
different ways than others. You aren't too concerned, are you, with what
those changes might already have done to any of the individuals
affected?"

"Hell, no," Cutter said loudly. "Why should I be? All I'm interested in
is efficiency. Tell me about efficiency, and I'll know what you're
talking about."

"All right," Bolen said. "We have no way of knowing right now which men
have been affected more than others. All we have is an average. The
average right now is eight and nine-tenths percent. But perhaps you have
some workers who do not react, because they really do not suffer the
lacks or compulsions or inhibitions that the Confidet is concerned with.
Perhaps they are working at top efficiency right now, and no amount of
further subjection to the Confidet will change them."

"All right then," Cutter said quickly, "we'll ferret that kind of
deadwood out, and replace them!"

"How will you know which are deadwood?" Bolen asked pleasantly.

"Individual checks, of course!"

Bolen shook his head, looking back at his tapering fingers. "It won't
necessarily work. You see, the work that these men are concerned with is
not particularly demanding work, is it? And that means you want to
strike a balance between capability and demand. It's the unbalance of
these things that creates trouble, and in your case, the demand
outweighed the capability. Now, if you get a total ten-percent increase,
then you're balanced. If you go over that, you'll break the balance all
over again, except that you'll have, in certain cases, capability
outweighing the demand of the work."

"Good," Cutter said. "Any man whose capability outweighs the work he's
doing will simply keep increasing his efficiency."

Bolen shook his head. "No. He'll react quite the other way. He'll lose
interest, because the work will no longer be a challenge, and then the
efficiency will drop."

Cutter's jaw hardened. "All right then. I'll move that man up, and fill
his place with someone else."

Bolen looked at Cutter's eyes, examined them curiously. "Some men have a
great deal of latent talent, Mr. Cutter. This talent released--"

Cutter frowned, studying Bolen carefully. Then he laughed suddenly. "You
think I might not be able to handle it?"

"Well, let's say that you've got a stable of gentle, quiet mares, and
you turn them suddenly into thoroughbreds. You have to make allowances
for that, Mr. Cutter. The same stalls, the same railings, the same
stable boys might not be able to do the job anymore."

"Yes," Cutter said, smiling without humor, "but the _owner_ has nothing
to do with stalls and railings and stable boys, only in the sense that
they are subsidiary. The owner is the owner, and if he has to make a few
subsidiary changes, all right. But nothing really affects the owner, no
matter whether you've got gentle mares or thoroughbreds."

Bolen nodded, as though he had expected that exact answer. "You are a
very certain man, aren't you, Mr. Cutter?"

"Would I be here, in this office, heading this company, if I weren't,
Bolen?"

Bolen smiled.

Cutter straightened in his chair. "All right, do we go on? Do we shoot
for the limit?"

Bolen chose his words carefully. "I am interested in testing my
Confidet, Mr. Cutter. This is the most important thing in the world to
me. I don't recommend what you want to do. But, as long as you'll give
me accurate reports on the effects of the Confidet, I'll go along with
you. Providing you grant me one concession."

Cutter frowned.

"I want our written contract dissolved."

Cutter reddened faintly. Nobody ever demanded anything of him and got it
easily, but his mind turned over rapidly, judging the increase in
efficiency, the increase in profits. He would not necessarily have to
stop with administrative personnel. There were other departments, too,
that could stand a little sharpening. Finally he nodded, reluctantly.
"All right, Bolen."

Bolen smiled and left quickly, and Cutter stared at his desk for a
moment, tense. Then, he relaxed and the hard sternness of his face
softened a bit. He put his finger on his desk calendar, and looked at a
date Lucile had circled for him. He grinned, and picked up the
telephone, and dialed.

"This is George H. Cutter," he said to the man who answered. "My wife's
birthday is next Saturday. Do you remember that antique desk I bought
her last year? Good. Well, the truth is, she uses it all the time, so
this year I'd like a good chair to match it. She's just using an
occasional chair right now, and..."

       *       *       *       *       *

Like everything he gave her, Mary liked his gift extremely well, and
night after night, after the birthday, he came home to find her at the
desk, using the chair, captaining her house and her servant staff. And
the improvement was noticeable in her, almost from the first day. Within
a month, he could detect a remarkable change, and for the first time,
since they had been married, Mary gave a dinner for thirty people
without crying just before it started.

There were other changes.

Quay brought in efficiency report after efficiency report, and by the
end of three months, they had hit eighteen and seven-tenths percent
increase. The administrative office was no longer the dull, listless
place it had been; now it thrived and hummed like the shop below. Cutter
could see the difference with his own eyes, and he could particularly
see the differences in certain individuals.

Brown and Kennedy showed remarkable improvement, but it was really Harry
Linden who astonished Cutter. An individual check showed a sixty-percent
increase by Linden, and there was a definite change in the man's looks.
He walked differently, with a quick, virile step, and the look of his
face and eyes had become strong and alive. He began appearing early in
the morning, ahead of the starting hour, and working late, and the only
time he missed any work hours, was one afternoon, during which, Lucile
informed Cutter, he had appeared in court for his divorce trial.

Within a month, Cutter had fired Stole and Lackter and Grant, as
department heads, and replaced them with Brown, Kennedy, and Linden. He
had formulated plans for installation of the Confidets in the drafting
department and the supply department, and already the profits of
increased efficiency were beginning to show in the records. Cutter was
full of new enthusiasm and ambition, and there was only one thorn in the
entire development.

Quay had resigned.

Cutter had been startled and extremely angry, but Quay had been
unperturbed and stubborn. "I've enjoyed working with you immensely,
George, but my mind is made up. No hard feelings?"

Cutter had not even shaken his hand.

It had bothered him for days, and he checked every industrial company in
the area, to see where Quay had found a better position. He was highly
surprised, when he learned, finally, that Quay had purchased a small
boat and was earning his living by carrying fishermen out onto the Bay.
Quay had also married, four days after his resignation, and Cutter
pushed the entire thing out of his mind, checking it off to partial
insanity.

By February of the next year, he had promoted Harry Linden to Quay's old
job, gotten rid of the deadwood that showed up so plainly on the
individual checks, and the total efficiency average had reached
thirty-three percent. His and Mary's anniversary was on the fourth of
March, and when that day arrived, he was certain that he had reached
that point where he could expand to another plant.

He was about to order her a mink stole in celebration, but it was also
that day that he was informed that she was suing him for divorce. He
rushed home, furious, but she was gone. She had taken her clothes and
jewelry and the second Cadillac. In fact, all that she had left of her
personal possessions were the antique desk and chair. When the trial was
over, months later, she had won enough support to take her to France,
where, he learned, she purchased a chateau at Cannes.

He tried to lose himself in his work, but for the first time in his
life, he had begun to get faintly worried. It was only a sliver of
worry, but it kept him from going on with the expansion. Stocks in the
company had turned over at an amazingly rapid rate, and while it was
still nothing more than intuition on his part, he began to tighten up,
readying himself to meet anything.

The explosion came in July.

Drindor Products had picked up forty-nine percent of the stock on the
market, by using secondary buyers. There had been a leak somewhere,
Cutter realized, that had told his competitor, Drindor, the kind of
profit he was making. He knew who it had been instantly, but before he
could fire Harry Linden, all of his walls crashed down. Four months
before, to put more _esprit de corps_ into Linden, he had allowed
Linden eight shares of his own stock, intending to pick it up later from
the market. Linden had coerced with Drindor. Cutter lost control.

A board of directors was elected by Drindor, and Drindor assumed the
presidency by proxy. Harry Linden took over Cutter's office, as Vice
President In Charge.

Cutter had wildly ordered Edward Bolen to remove the Confidets one week
before, but even then he had known that it was too late, and the
smiling, knowing look on Bolen's face had infuriated him to a screaming
rage. Bolen remained undisturbed, and quietly carried the disks away.
Cutter, when he left his office that final day, moved slowly, very
slowly.

       *       *       *       *       *

He brooded for many long days after that, searching his mind for a way
to counterattack. He still had enough stock to keep him comfortable if
he lived another hundred years. But he no longer had the power, and he
thirsted for that. He turned it around and around in his brain, trying
to figure out how he could do it, and the one thing he finally knew, the
one certain thing, was that if he used enough drive, enough strength,
then he would regain control of the company he had built with his own
hands and mind.

He paced the library and the long living room and the dining room, and
his eyes were lost, until he saw, through the doorway of the sewing
room, that desk and that chair, and he remembered he hadn't done
anything about that.

He paused only briefly, because he had not lost an ounce of his ability
to make a sudden decision, and then he removed that disk and carried it
to the library and fitted it under the cushion of the large, worn,
leather chair.


By fall, he had done nothing to regain control, and he was less certain
of how he should act than he had been months before. He kept driving by
the plant and looking at it, but he did so carefully, so that no one
would see him, and he was surprised to find that, above all, he didn't
want to face Harry Linden. The memory of the man's firm look, the sharp,
bold eyes, frightened him, and the knowledge of his fright crushed him
inside. He wished desperately that Mary were back with him, and he even
wrote her letters, pleading letters, but they came back, unopened.

Finally he went to see Robert Quay, because Quay was the only man in his
memory whom he somehow didn't fear talking to. He found Quay in a small
cottage near the beach. There was a six-day old infant in a crib in the
bedroom, and Quay's wife was a sparkling-eyed girl with a smile that
made Cutter feel relatively at ease for the first time in weeks.

She politely left them alone, and Cutter sat there, embarrassed faintly,
but glad to be in Quay's home and presence. They talked of how it had
been, when Quay was with the company, and finally Cutter pushed himself
into asking about it:

"I've often wondered, Bob, why you left?"

Quay blushed slightly, then grinned. "I might as well admit it. I got
one of those things from Bolen, and had it installed in my own chair."

Cutter thought about it, surprised. He cleared his throat. "And then you
quit?"

"Sure," Quay said. "All my life, I'd wanted to do just what I'm doing.
But things just came easy to me, and the opportunities were always
there, and I just never had the guts to pass anything by. Finally I
did."

Quay smiled at him, and Cutter shifted in his chair. "The Confidet did
that."

Cutter nodded.

It came to him suddenly, something he'd never suspected until that
moment. There was something very definitely wrong with what had happened
to him. The Confidet had affected everyone but him; there must have been
something wrong with the one he had been using. It had worked with Mary,
but hadn't Bolen said something about the energy being used in
proportion to the demand? Mary had certainly created a demand. Bolen
said the life of it was indefinite, but couldn't the energy have been
used up?

"Ah," he said carefully, smiling, to Quay. "You wouldn't have it around,
would you? That Confidet of yours?"

"Oh, hell, no," Quay said. "I gave it to Bolen a long time ago. He came
around for it, in fact. Said he had to keep track of all of them."

Cutter left hurriedly, with Quay and his wife following him to his car.
He drove straight to Bolen's house.

Fury built inside of him. All this time, Bolen had kept track of his
Confidet, the one that Mary had used, and all this time, he had known
Cutter still had it. Cutter was furious over the realization that Bolen
had been using him for experimentation, and also because the Confidet
that he had tried to use had turned worthless.

All his hatred, all his anger churned inside of him like the heat from
shaken coals, but when he walked up the path to Bolen's small house, he
did so quietly, with extreme care.

When he saw Bolen's face in the doorway, he wanted to strike the man,
but he kept his hands quietly at his sides; and though he hated himself
for it, he even smiled a little at the man.

"Come in," Bolen smiled, and he spoke softly, and at the same time he
examined Cutter with quick, penetrating eyes. "Come in, Mr. Cutter."

Cutter wanted to stand there and demand another Confidet, a good one,
and not walk inside, politely, like he did. And he wished that his voice
would come out, quickly, with the power and hate in it that he had once
been capable of. But for some reason, he couldn't say a word.

Bolen was extremely polite. "You've been using that Confidet, haven't
you?" He spoke gently, almost as though he were speaking to a frightened
child.

"Yes," Cutter managed to say.

"And what you expected to happen, didn't. That's what you want to tell
me, isn't it?"

Cutter's insides quivered with rage, but he was able only to nod.

"Would you like to know why?" Bolen said.

Cutter rubbed his damp palms over his knees. He nodded.

Bolen smiled, his eyes sparkling. "Very simple really. It wasn't the
fault of the Confidet so much, Mr. Cutter, as you. You see, you are a
rare exception. What you are, or possibly I should say, what you were,
was a complete super ego. There are very few of those, Mr. Cutter, in
this world, but you happened to be one of them. A really absolute,
complete super ego, and the Confidet's effect was simply the reverse of
what it would have been with anyone else." Bolen shook his head,
sympathetically, but he didn't stop smiling, and his eyes didn't stop
their infuriating exploration of Cutter's face and eyes and hands. "It's
really a shame, because I was almost certain you were a super ego, Mr.
Cutter. And when you didn't return that last Confidet, I somehow felt
that you might use it, after all that nasty business at the company and
all.

"But while I was fairly certain of the effects, Mr. Cutter, I wasn't
absolutely _sure_, you see, and so like the rest of the experiments, I
had to forget my conscience. I'm really very sorry."

The anger was a wild thing inside Cutter now, and it made his hands
tremble and sweat, and his mouth quiver, and he hated the man in front
of him, the man who was responsible for what had happened to him, the
smiling man with the soft voice and exploring eyes. But he didn't say
anything, not a word. He didn't show his anger or his frustration or his
resentment. He didn't indicate to Bolen a particle of his inner
wildness.

He didn't have the nerve.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Confidence Game, by James McKimmey

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CONFIDENCE GAME ***

***** This file should be named 32243.txt or 32243.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/2/4/32243/

Produced by Greg Weeks, David Wilson and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
