The Project Gutenberg EBook of Keep Your Shape, by Robert Sheckley

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Keep Your Shape

Author: Robert Sheckley

Illustrator: Vidmer

Release Date: May 12, 2010 [EBook #32346]
[Last updated: August 22, 2012]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK KEEP YOUR SHAPE ***




Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net







                         Transcriber's Note:

    This etext was produced from Galaxy Science Fiction November 1953.
    Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
    copyright on this publication was renewed.


                           KEEP YOUR SHAPE


                          By ROBERT SHECKLEY


                        Illustrated by VIDMER


     _Only a race as incredibly elastic as the Grom could have a
      single rule of war:_

       *       *       *       *       *




Pid the Pilot slowed the ship almost to a standstill, and peered
anxiously at the green planet below.

Even without instruments, there was no mistaking it. Third from its
sun, it was the only planet in this system capable of sustaining life.
Peacefully it swam beneath its gauze of clouds.

It looked very innocent. And yet, twenty previous Grom expeditions had
set out to prepare this planet for invasion--and vanished utterly,
without a word.

Pid hesitated only a moment, before starting irrevocably down. There
was no point in hovering and worrying. He and his two crewmen were as
ready now as they would ever be. Their compact Displacers were stored
in body pouches, inactive but ready.

Pid wanted to say something to his crew, but wasn't sure how to put
it.

The crew waited. Ilg the Radioman had sent the final message to the
Grom planet. Ger the Detector read sixteen dials at once, and
reported, "No sign of alien activity." His body surfaces flowed
carelessly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Noticing the flow, Pid knew what to say to his crew. Ever since they
had left Grom, shape-discipline had been disgustingly lax. The
Invasion Chief had warned him; but still, he had to do something about
it. It was his duty, since lower castes such as Radiomen and Detectors
were notoriously prone to Shapelessness.

"A lot of hopes are resting on this expedition," he began slowly.
"We're a long way from home now."

Ger the Detector nodded. Ilg the Radioman flowed out of his prescribed
shape and molded himself comfortably to a wall.

"However," Pid said sternly, "distance is no excuse for promiscuous
Shapelessness."

Ilg flowed hastily back into proper Radioman's shape.

"Exotic forms will undoubtedly be called for," Pid went on. "And for
that we have a special dispensation. But remember--any shape not
assumed strictly in the line of duty is a foul, lawless device of The
Shapeless One!"

Ger's body surfaces abruptly stopped flowing.

"That's all," Pid said, and flowed into his controls. The ship started
down, so smoothly co-ordinated that Pid felt a glow of pride.

They were good workers, he decided. He just couldn't expect them to be
as shape-conscious as a high-caste Pilot. Even the Invasion Chief had
told him that.

"Pid," the Invasion Chief had said at their last interview, "we need
this planet desperately."

"Yes, sir," Pid had said, standing at full attention, never quivering
from Optimum Pilot's Shape.

"One of you," the Chief said heavily, "must get through and set up a
Displacer near an atomic power source. The army will be standing by at
this end, ready to step through."

"We'll do it, sir," Pid said.

"This expedition has to succeed," the Chief said, and his features
blurred momentarily from sheer fatigue. "In strictest confidence,
there's considerable unrest on Grom. The Miner caste is on strike, for
instance. They want a new digging shape. Say the old one is
inefficient."

[Illustration]

Pid looked properly indignant. The Mining Shape had been set down by
the Ancients fifty thousand years ago, together with the rest of the
basic shapes. And now these upstarts wanted to change it!

"That's not all," the Chief told him. "We've uncovered a new Cult of
Shapelessness. Picked up almost eight thousand Grom, and I don't know
how many more we missed."

Pid knew that Shapelessness was a lure of The Shapeless One, the
greatest evil that the Grom mind could conceive of. But why, he
wondered, did so many Grom fall for His lures?

       *       *       *       *       *

The Chief guessed his question. "Pid," he said, "I suppose it's
difficult for you to understand. Do you enjoy Piloting?"

"Yes, sir," Pid said simply. _Enjoy_ Piloting! It was his entire life!
Without a ship, he was nothing.

"Not all Grom feel that way," the Chief said. "I don't understand it
either. All my ancestors have been Invasion Chiefs, back to the
beginning of time. So of course _I_ want to be an Invasion Chief. It's
only natural, as well as lawful. But the lower castes don't feel that
way." The Chief shook his body sadly. "I've told you this for a
reason. We Grom need more room. This unrest is caused purely by
crowding. All our psychologists say so. Another planet to expand into
will cure everything. So we're counting on you, Pid."

"Yes, sir," Pid said, with a glow of pride.

The Chief rose to end the interview. Then he changed his mind and sat
down again.

"You'll have to watch your crew," he said. "They're loyal, no doubt,
but low-caste. And you know the lower castes."

Pid did indeed.

"Ger, your Detector, is suspected of harboring Alterationist
tendencies. He was once fined for assuming a quasi-Hunter shape. Ilg
has never had any definite charge brought against him. But I hear that
he remains immobile for suspiciously long periods of time. Possibly,
he fancies himself a Thinker."

"But, sir," Pid protested. "If they are even slightly tainted with
Alterationism or Shapelessness, why send them on this expedition?"

The Chief hesitated before answering. "There are plenty of Grom I
could trust," he said slowly. "But those two have certain qualities of
resourcefulness and imagination that will be needed on this
expedition." He sighed. "I really don't understand why those qualities
are usually linked with Shapelessness."

"Yes, sir," Pid said.

"Just watch them."

"Yes, sir," Pid said again, and saluted, realizing that the interview
was at an end. In his body pouch he felt the dormant Displacer, ready
to transform the enemy's power source into a bridge across space for
the Grom hordes.

"Good luck," the chief said. "I'm sure you'll need it."

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship dropped silently toward the surface of the enemy planet. Ger
the Detector analyzed the clouds below, and fed data into the
Camouflage Unit. The Unit went to work. Soon the ship looked, to all
outward appearances, like a cirrus formation.

Pid allowed the ship to drift slowly toward the surface of the mystery
planet. He was in Optimum Pilot's Shape now, the most efficient of the
four shapes alloted to the Pilot caste. Blind, deaf and dumb, an
extension of his controls, all his attention was directed toward
matching the velocities of the high-flying clouds, staying among them,
becoming a part of them.

Ger remained rigidly in one of the two shapes alloted to Detectors. He
fed data into the Camouflage Unit, and the descending ship slowly
altered into an alto-cumulus.

There was no sign of activity from the enemy planet.

Ilg located an atomic power source, and fed the data to Pid. The Pilot
altered course. He had reached the lowest level of clouds, barely a
mile above the surface of the planet. Now his ship looked like a fat,
fleecy cumulus.

And still there was no sign of alarm. The unknown fate that had
overtaken twenty previous expeditions still had not showed itself.

Dusk crept across the face of the planet as Pid maneuvered near the
atomic power installation. He avoided the surrounding homes and
hovered over a clump of woods.

Darkness fell, and the green planet's lone moon was veiled in clouds.

One cloud floated lower.

And landed.

"Quick, everyone out!" Pid shouted, detaching himself from the ship's
controls. He assumed the Pilot's Shape best suited for running, and
raced out the hatch. Ger and Ilg hurried after him. They stopped fifty
yards from the ship, and waited.

Inside the ship a little-used circuit closed. There was a silent
shudder, and the ship began to melt. Plastic dissolved, metal
crumpled. Soon the ship was a great pile of junk, and still the
process went on. Big fragments broke into smaller fragments, and
split, and split again.

Pid felt suddenly helpless, watching his ship scuttle itself. He was
a Pilot, of the Pilot caste. His father had been a Pilot, and his
father before him, stretching back to the hazy past when the Grom had
first constructed ships. He had spent his entire childhood around
ships, his entire manhood flying them.

Now, shipless, he was naked in an alien world.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a few minutes there was only a mound of dust to show where the ship
had been. The night wind scattered it through the forest. And then
there was nothing at all.

They waited. Nothing happened. The wind sighed and the trees creaked.
Squirrels chirped, and birds stirred in their nests. An acorn fell to
the ground.

Pid heaved a sigh of relief and sat down. The twenty-first Grom
expedition had landed safely.

There was nothing to be done until morning, so Pid began to make
plans. They had landed as close to the atomic power installation as
they dared. Now they would have to get closer. Somehow, one of them
had to get very near the reactor room, in order to activate the
Displacer.

Difficult. But Pid felt certain of success. After all, the Grom were
strong on ingenuity.

Strong on ingenuity, he thought bitterly, but terribly short of
radioactives. That was another reason why this expedition was so
important. There was little radioactive fuel left, on any of the Grom
worlds. Ages ago, the Grom had spent their store of radioactives in
spreading throughout their neighboring worlds, occupying the ones that
they could live on.

Now, colonization barely kept up with the mounting birthrate. New
worlds were constantly needed.

This particular world, discovered in a scouting expedition, was
needed. It suited the Grom perfectly. But it was too far away. They
didn't have enough fuel to mount a conquering space fleet.

Luckily, there was another way. A better way.

Over the centuries, the Grom scientists had developed the Displacer. A
triumph of Identity Engineering, the Displacer allowed mass to be
moved instantaneously between any two linked points.

One end was set up at Grom's sole atomic energy plant. The other end
had to be placed in proximity to another atomic power source, and
activated. Diverted power then flowed through both ends, was modified,
and modified again.

Then, through the miracle of Identity Engineering, the Grom could
_step_ through from planet to planet; or pour through in a great,
overwhelming wave.

It was quite simple.

But twenty expeditions had failed to set up the Earth-end Displacer.

What had happened to them was not known.

For no Grom ship had ever returned to tell.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before dawn they crept through the woods, taking on the coloration of
the plants around them. Their Displacers pulsed feebly, sensing the
nearness of atomic energy.

A tiny, four-legged creature darted in front of them. Instantly, Ger
grew four legs and a long, streamlined body and gave chase.

"Ger! Come back here!" Pid howled at the Detector, throwing caution to
the winds.

Ger overtook the animal and knocked it down. He tried to bite it, but
he had neglected to grow teeth. The animal jumped free, and vanished
into the underbrush. Ger thrust out a set of teeth and bunched his
muscles for another leap.

"_Ger!_"

Reluctantly, the Detector turned away. He loped silently back to Pid.

"I was hungry," he said.

"You were not," Pid said sternly.

"Was," Ger mumbled, writhing with embarrassment.

Pid remembered what the Chief had told him. Ger certainly did have
Hunter tendencies. He would have to watch him more closely.

"We'll have no more of that," Pid said. "Remember--the lure of Exotic
Shapes is not sanctioned. Be content with the shape you were born to."

Ger nodded, and melted back into the underbrush. They moved on.

At the extreme edge of the woods they could observe the atomic energy
installation. Pid disguised himself as a clump of shrubbery, and Ger
formed himself into an old log. Ilg, after a moment's thought, became
a young oak.

The installation was in the form of a long, low building, surrounded
by a metal fence. There was a gate, and guards in front of it.

The first job, Pid thought, was to get past that gate. He began to
consider ways and means.

From the fragmentary reports of the survey parties, Pid knew that, in
some ways, this race of Men were like the Grom. They had pets, as the
Grom did, and homes and children, and a culture. The inhabitants were
skilled mechanically, as were the Grom.

But there were terrific differences, also. The Men were of fixed and
immutable form, like stones or trees. And to compensate, their planet
boasted a fantastic array of species, types and kinds. This was
completely unlike Grom, which had only eight distinct forms of animal
life.

And evidently, the Men were skilled at detecting invaders, Pid
thought. He wished he knew how the other expeditions had failed. It
would make his job much easier.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Man lurched past them on two incredibly stiff legs. Rigidity was
evident in his every move. Without looking, he hurried past.

"I know," Ger said, after the creature had moved away. "I'll disguise
myself as a Man, walk through the gate to the reactor room, and
activate my Displacer."

"You can't speak their language," Pid pointed out.

"I won't speak at all. I'll ignore them. Look." Quickly Ger shaped
himself into a Man.

"That's not bad," Pid said.

Ger tried a few practice steps, copying the bumpy walk of the Man.

"But I'm afraid it won't work," Pid said.

"It's perfectly logical," Ger pointed out.

"I know. Therefore the other expeditions must have tried it. And none
of them came back."

There was no arguing that. Ger flowed back into the shape of a log.
"What, then?" he asked.

"Let me think," Pid said.

Another creature lurched past, on four legs instead of two. Pid
recognized it as a Dog, a pet of Man. He watched it carefully.

The Dog ambled to the gate, head down, in no particular hurry. It
walked through, unchallenged, and lay down in the grass.

"H'm," Pid said.

They watched. One of the Men walked past, and touched the Dog on the
head. The Dog stuck out its tongue and rolled over on its side.

"I can do that," Ger said excitedly. He started to flow into the shape
of a Dog.

"No, wait," Pid said. "We'll spend the rest of the day thinking it
over. This is too important to rush into."

Ger subsided sulkily.

"Come on, let's move back," Pid said. He and Ger started into the
woods. Then he remembered Ilg.

"Ilg?" he called softly.

There was no answer.

"Ilg!"

"What? Oh, yes," an oak tree said, and melted into a bush. "Sorry.
What were you saying?"

"We're moving back," Pid said. "Were you, by any chance, Thinking?"

"Oh, no," Ilg assured him. "Just resting."

Pid let it go at that. There was too much else to worry about.

       *       *       *       *       *

They discussed it for the rest of the day, hidden in the deepest part
of the woods. The only alternatives seemed to be Man or Dog. A Tree
couldn't walk past the gates, since that was not in the nature of
trees. Nor could anything else, and escape notice.

Going as a Man seemed too risky. They decided that Ger would sally out
in the morning as a Dog.

"Now get some sleep," Pid said.

Obediently his two crewmen flattened out, going immediately Shapeless.
But Pid had a more difficult time.

Everything looked too easy. Why wasn't the atomic installation better
guarded? Certainly the Men must have learned something from the
expeditions they had captured in the past. Or had they killed them
without asking any questions?

You couldn't tell what an alien would do.

Was that open gate a trap?

Wearily he flowed into a comfortable position on the lumpy ground.
Then he pulled himself together hastily.

He had gone Shapeless!

Comfort was not in the line of duty, he reminded himself, and firmly
took a Pilot's Shape.

But a Pilot's Shape wasn't constructed for sleeping on damp, bumpy
ground. Pid spent a restless night, thinking of ships, and wishing he
were flying one.

He awoke in the morning tired and ill-tempered. He nudged Ger.

"Let's get this over with," he said.

Ger flowed gaily to his feet.

"Come on, Ilg," Pid said angrily, looking around. "Wake up."

There was no reply.

"Ilg!" he called.

Still there was no reply.

"Help me look for him," Pid said to Ger. "He must be around here
somewhere."

Together they tested every bush, tree, log and shrub in the vicinity.
But none of them was Ilg.

Pid began to feel a cold panic run through him. What could have
happened to the Radioman?

"Perhaps he decided to go through the gate on his own," Ger suggested.
[original: Ilg suggested (n. of transcriber)]

Pid considered the possibility. It seemed unlikely. Ilg had never
shown much initiative. He had always been content to follow orders.

They waited. But midday came, and there was still no sign of Ilg.

"We can't wait any longer," Pid said, and they started through the
woods. Pid wondered if Ilg _had_ tried to get through the gates on his
own. Those quiet types often concealed a foolhardy streak.

But there was nothing to show that Ilg had been successful. He would
have to assume that the Radioman was dead, or captured by the Men.

That left two of them to activate a Displacer.

And he still didn't know what had happened to the other expeditions.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the edge of the woods, Ger turned himself into a facsimile of a
Dog. Pid inspected him carefully.

"A little less tail," he said.

Ger shortened his tail.

"More ears."

Ger lengthened his ears,

"Now even them up."

They became even.

Pid inspected the finished product. As far as he could tell, Ger was
perfect, from the tip of his tail to his wet, black nose.

"Good luck," Pid said.

"Thanks." Cautiously Ger moved out of the woods, walking in the
lurching style of Dogs and Men. At the gate the guard called to him.
Pid held his breath.

Ger walked past the Man, ignoring him. The Man started to walk over.
Ger broke into a run.

Pid shaped a pair of strong legs for himself, ready to dash if Ger was
caught.

But the guard turned back to his gate. Ger stopped running
immediately, and strolled quietly toward the main door of the
building.

Pid dissolved his legs with a sigh of relief ... and then tensed
again.

The main door was closed!

Pid hoped the Radioman wouldn't try to open it. That was _not_ in the
nature of Dogs.

As he watched, another Dog came running toward Ger. Ger backed away
from him. The Dog approached and sniffed. Ger sniffed back.

Then both of them ran around the building.

That was clever, Pid thought. There was bound to be a door in the
rear.

He glanced up at the afternoon sun. As soon as the Displacer was
activated, the Grom armies would begin to pour through. By the time
the Men recovered from the shock, a million or more Grom troops would
be here, weapons and all. With more following.

The day passed slowly, and nothing happened.

Nervously Pid watched the front of the plant. It shouldn't be taking
so long, if Ger were successful.

Late into the night he waited. Men walked in and out of the
installation, and Dogs barked around the gates. But Ger did not
appear.

Ger had failed. Ilg was gone. Only he was left.

And _still_ he didn't know what had happened.

       *       *       *       *       *

By morning, Pid was in complete despair. He knew that the twenty-first
Grom expedition to this planet was near the point of complete failure.
Now it was all up to him.

He saw that workers were arriving in great number, rushing through the
gates. He decided to take advantage of the apparent confusion, and
started to shape himself into a Man.

A Dog walked past the woods where he was hiding.

"Hello," the Dog said.

It was Ger!

"What happened?" Pid asked, with a sigh of relief. "Why were you so
long? Couldn't you get in?"

"I don't know," Ger said, wagging his tail. "I didn't try."

Pid was speechless.

"I went hunting," Ger said complacently. "This form is ideal for
Hunting, you know. I went out the rear gate with another Dog."

"But the expedition--your duty--"

"I changed my mind," Ger told him. "You know, Pilot, I never wanted to
be a Detector."

"But you were _born_ a Detector!"

"That's true," Ger said. "But it doesn't help. I always wanted to be a
Hunter."

Pid shook his entire body in annoyance. "You can't," he said, very
slowly, as one would explain to a Gromling. "The Hunter shape is
forbidden to you."

"Not here it isn't," Ger said, still wagging his tail.

"Let's have no more of this," Pid said angrily. "Get into that
installation and set up your Displacer. I'll try to overlook this
heresy."

"No," Ger said. "I don't want the Grom here. They'd ruin it for the
rest of us."

"He's right," a nearby oak tree said.

"Ilg!" Pid gasped. "Where are you?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Branches stirred. "I'm right here," Ilg said. "I've been Thinking."

"But--your caste--"

"Pilot," Ger said sadly, "why don't you wake up? Most of the people on
Grom are miserable. Only custom makes us take the caste-shape of our
ancestors."

"Pilot," Ilg said, "all Grom are born Shapeless!"

"And being born Shapeless, all Grom should have Freedom of Shape,"
Ger said.

"Exactly," Ilg said. "But he'll never understand. Now excuse me. I
want to Think." And the oak tree was silent.

Pid laughed humorlessly. "The Men will kill you off," he said. "Just
as they killed off all the other expeditions."

"No one from Grom has been killed," Ger told him. "The other
expeditions are right here."

"Alive?"

"Certainly. The Men don't even know we exist. That Dog I was Hunting
with is a Grom from the twelfth expedition. There are hundreds of us
here, Pilot. We like it."

Pid tried to absorb it all. He had always known that the lower castes
were lax in caste-consciousness. But this was preposterous!

This planet's secret menace was--freedom!

"Join us, Pilot," Ger said. "We've got a paradise here. Do you know
how many species there are on this planet? An uncountable number!
There's a shape to suit every need!"

Pid ignored them. Traitors!

He'd do the job all by himself.

So Men were unaware of the presence of the Grom. Getting near the
reactor might not be so difficult after all. The others had failed in
their duty because they were of the lower castes, weak and
irresponsible. Even the Pilots among them must have been secretly
sympathetic to the Cult of Shapelessness the Chief had mentioned, or
the alien planet could never have swayed them.

What shape to assume for his attempt?

Pid considered.

A Dog might be best. Evidently Dogs could wander pretty much where
they wished. If something went wrong, Pid could change his shape to
meet the occasion.

"The Supreme Council will take care of all of you," he snarled, and
shaped himself into a small brown Dog. "I'm going to set up the
Displacer myself."

He studied himself for a moment, bared his teeth at Ger, and loped
toward the gate.

       *       *       *       *       *

He loped for about ten feet and stopped in utter horror.

The smells rushed at him from all directions. Smells in a profusion
and variety he had never dreamed existed. Smells that were harsh,
sweet, sharp, heavy, mysterious, overpowering. Smells that terrified.
Alien and repulsive and inescapable, the odors of Earth struck him
like a blow.

He curled his lips and held his breath. He ran on for a few steps, and
had to breathe again. He almost choked.

He tried to remold his Dog-nostrils to be less sensitive. It didn't
work. It wouldn't, so long as he kept the Dog-shape. An attempt to
modify his metabolism didn't work either.

All this in the space of two or three seconds. He was rooted in his
tracks, fighting the smells, wondering what to do.

Then the noises hit him.

They were a constant and staggering roar, through which every tiniest
whisper of sound stood out clearly and distinct. Sounds upon
sounds--more noise than he had ever heard before at one time in his
life. The woods behind him had suddenly become a mad-house.

Utterly confused, he lost control and became Shapeless.

He half-ran, half-flowed into a nearby bush. There he re-Shaped,
obliterating the offending Dog ears and nostrils with vicious strokes
of his thoughts.

The Dog-shape was out. Absolutely. Such appalling sharpness of senses
might be fine for a Hunter such as Ger--he probably gloried in them.
But another moment of such impressions would have driven Pid the Pilot
mad.

What now? He lay in the bush and thought about it, while gradually his
mind threw off the last effects of the dizzying sensory assault.

He looked at the gate. The Men standing there evidently hadn't noticed
his fiasco. They were looking in another direction.

... a Man?

Well, it was worth a try.

       *       *       *       *       *

Studying the Men at the gate, Pid carefully shaped himself into a
facsimile--a synthesis, actually, embodying one characteristic of
that, another of this.

He emerged from the side of the bush opposite the gate, on his hands
and knees. He sniffed the air, noting that the smells the Man-nostrils
picked up weren't unpleasant at all. In fact, some of them were
decidedly otherwise. It had just been the acuity of the Dog-nostrils,
the number of smells they had detected and the near-brilliance with
which they had done so, that had shocked him.

Also, the sounds weren't half so devastating. Only relatively close
sounds stood out. All else was an undetailed whispering.

Evidently, Pid thought, it had been a long time since Men had been
Hunters.

He tested his legs, standing up and taking a few clumsy steps. _Thud_
of foot on ground. Drag the other leg forward in a heavy arc. _Thud._
Rocking from side to side, he marched back and forth behind the bush.
His arms flapped as he sought balance. His head wobbled on its neck,
until he remembered to hold it up. Head up, eyes down, he missed
seeing a small rock. His heel turned on it. He sat down, hard.

The ankle hurt. Pid curled his Man-lips and crawled back into the
bush.

The Man-shape was too unspeakably clumsy. It was offensive to plod one
step at a time. Body held rigidly upright. Arms wobbling. There had
been a deluge of sense-impressions in the Dog-shape; there was dull,
stiff, half-alive inadequacy to the Man-shape.

Besides, it was dangerous, now that Pid thought it over, as well as
distasteful. He couldn't control it properly. It wouldn't look right.
Someone might question him. There was too much about Men he
didn't--couldn't--know. The planting of the Displacer was too
important a thing for him to fumble again. Only luck had kept him from
being seen during the sensory onslaught.

The Displacer in his body pouch pulsed and tugged, urging him to be on
his way toward the distant reactor room.

Grimly, Pid let out the last breath he had taken with his Man-lungs,
and dissolved the lungs.

What shape to take?

Again he studied the gate, the Men standing beside it, the building
beyond in which was the all-important reactor.

A small shape was needed. A fast one. An unobtrusive one.

He lay and thought.

The bush rustled above him. A small brown shape had fluttered down to
light on a twig. It hopped to another twig, twittering. Then it
fluttered off in a flash, and was gone.

That, Pid thought, was it.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Sparrow that was not a Sparrow rose from the bush a few moments
later. An observer would have seen it circle the bush, diving,
hedgehopping, even looping, as if practicing all maneuvers possible to
Sparrows.

Pid tensed his shoulder muscles, inclined his wings. He slipped off to
the right, approached the bush at what seemed breakneck speed, though
he knew this was only because of his small size. At the last second he
lifted his tail. Not quite quickly enough. He swooped up and over the
top of the bush, but his legs brushed the top leaves, his beak went
down, and he stumbled in air for a few feet back-forward.

He blinked beady eyes as if at a challenge. Back toward the bush at a
fine clip, again up and over. This time cleanly.

He chose a tree. Zoomed into its network of branches, wove a web of
flight, working his way around and around the trunk, over and under
branches that flashed before him, through crotches with no more than a
feather's-breath to spare.

At last he rested on a low branch, and found himself chirping in
delight.

The tree extruded a feeler from the branch he sat on, and touched his
wings and tail.

"Interesting," said the tree. "I'll have to try that shape some time."

Ilg.

"Traitor," hissed Pid, growing a mouth in his chest to hiss it, and
then he did something that caused Ilg to exclaim in outrage.

Pid flew out of the woods. Over the underbrush and across the open
space toward the gate.

This body would do the trick!

This body would do anything!

He rose, in a matter of a few Sparrow heartbeats, to an altitude of a
hundred feet. From here the gate, the Men, the building were small,
sharp shapes against a green-brown mat. Pid found that he could see
not only with unaccustomed clarity, but with a range of vision that
astonished him. To right and to left he could see far into the hazy
blue of the sky, and the higher he rose the farther he could see.

He rose higher.

The Displacer pulsed, reminding him of the job he had to do.

       *       *       *       *       *

He stiffened his wings and glided, regretfully putting aside his
desires to experiment with this wonderful shape, at least for the
present. After he planted the Displacer, he would go off by himself
for a while and do it just a little more--somewhere where Ilg and Ger
would not see him--before the Grom Army arrived and the invasion
began.

He felt a tiny twinge of guilt, as he circled. It was Evil to want to
keep this alien flying shape any longer than was absolutely necessary
to the performance of his duty. It was a device of the Shapeless One--

But what had Ilg said? _All Grom are born Shapeless._ It was true.
Grom children were amorphous, until old enough to be instructed in the
caste-shape of their ancestors.

Maybe it wasn't _too_ great a sin to alter your Shape, then--just once
in a long while. After all, one must be fully aware of the nature of
Evil in order to meaningfully reject it.

He had fallen lower in circling. The Displacer pulse had strengthened.
For some reason it irritated him. He drove higher on strong wings,
circled again. Air rushed past him--a smooth, whispering flow, pierced
by his beak, streaming invisibly past his sharp eyes, moving along his
body in tiny turbulences that moved his feathers against his skin.

It occurred to him--or rather struck him with considerable force--that
he was satisfying a longing of his Pilot Caste that went far deeper
than Piloting.

He drove powerfully with his wings, felt tonus across his back, shot
forward and up. He thought of the controls of his ship. He imagined
flowing into them, becoming part of them, as he had so often done--and
for the first time in his life the thought failed to excite him.

No machine could compare with this!

What he would give to have wings of his own!

_... Get from my sight, Shapeless One!_

The Displacer must be planted, activated. All Grom depended on him.

He eyed the building, far below. He would pass over it. The Displacer
would tell him which window to enter--which window was so near the
reactor that he could do his job before the Men even knew he was
about.

He started to drop lower, and the Hawk struck.

       *       *       *       *       *

It had been above him. His first inkling of danger was the sharp pain
of talons in his back, and the stunning blow of a beak across his
head.

Dazed, he let his back go Shapeless. His body-substance flowed from
the grasp of the talons. He dropped a dozen feet and resumed
Sparrow-shape, hearing an astonished squawk from the attacker.

He banked, and looked up. The Hawk was eyeing him.

Talons spread again. The sharp beak gaped. The Hawk swooped.

Pid had to fight as a Bird, naturally. He was four hundred feet above
the ground.

So he became an impossibly deadly Bird.

He grew to twice the size of the Hawk. He grew a foot-long beak with
a double razor's edge. He grew talons like six inch scimitars. His
eyes gleamed a red challenge.

The Hawk broke flight, squalling in alarm. Frantically, tail down and
widespread, it thundered its wings and came to a dead stop six feet
from Pid.

Looking thoughtfully at Pid, it allowed itself to plummet. It fell a
hundred feet, spread its wings, stretched its neck and flew off so
hastily that its wings became blurs.

Pid saw no reason to pursue it.

Then, after a moment, he did.

He glided, keeping the Hawk in sight, thoughts racing, feeling the
newness, the power, the wonder of Freedom of Shape.

Freedom....

He did not want to give it up.

The bird-shape was wondrous. He would experiment with it. Later, he
might tire of it for a time and assume another--a crawling or running
shape, or even a swimming one. The possibilities for excitement, for
adventure, for fulfilment and simple sensual pleasure were endless!

Freedom of Shape was--obviously, now that you thought on it--the Grom
birthright. And the caste-system was artificial--obviously. A device
for political and priestly benefit--obviously.

_Go away, Shapeless One ... this does not concern you._

He rose to a thousand feet, two thousand, three. The Displacer's pulse
grew feebler and finally vanished.

At four thousand feet he released it and watched it spin downward,
vanish into a cloud.

Then he set out after the Hawk, which was now only a dot on the
horizon. He would find out how the Hawk had broken flight as it
had--skidded on air--he wanted to do that too! There were so many
things he wanted to learn about flying. In a week, he thought, he
should be able to duplicate all the skill that millennia had evolved
into Birds. Then his new life would really begin.

He became a torpedo-shape with huge wings, and sped after the Hawk.

                                                         ROBERT SHECKLEY

       *       *       *       *       *







End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Keep Your Shape, by Robert Sheckley

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK KEEP YOUR SHAPE ***

***** This file should be named 32346.txt or 32346.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/3/4/32346/

Produced by Sankar Viswanathan, Greg Weeks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
