The Project Gutenberg EBook of Forsyte's Retreat, by Winston Marks

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Forsyte's Retreat

Author: Winston Marks

Illustrator: Kelly Freas

Release Date: June 7, 2010 [EBook #32735]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FORSYTE'S RETREAT ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                        FORSYTE'S RETREAT

                        By Winston Marks

                   Illustration by Kelly Freas

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from IF Worlds of Science
Fiction May 1954. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: _Sextus Rollo Forsyte had his trouble with the bottle, but
nothing out of a bottle ever produced such a hotel as the Mahoney-Plaza:
only 260 rooms ... only two guests to a room ... but accommodating 5200
guests--all at the same time!... Floor please?_]


At last he was second in line. He squared his shoulders and pulled at
the lower edges of his black double-breasted suitcoat to erase the
travel wrinkles. The applicant ahead of him exploded the words, "Nuts!
I'll leave town first. I just _came_ from the Phony-Plaza. You can take
that squirrel-cage and--"

"Next!" the employment agent called sadly. Sextus Rollo Forsyte moved up
and sat in the oak chair before the oak desk and faced the oak-featured
man with the jobs.

"Forsyte is the name," Sextus reminded. The man riffled through the
application cards.

"Yes. Indeed. Lucky you came back. I have a fine position for you, Mr.
Forsyte. Right in your line." He held out a blue slip. "The general
manager's position is open at the Mahoney-Plaza. Six hundred a month,
board and room. Now if you will...."

Sextus staggered from the employment office stunned.

He could handle the job, all right. As he'd said on the application
form, in his forty years he had managed half a dozen large hotels. But
they were handing him this plum without comment on his failure to fill
in the spaces marked: COMPLETE REFERENCES (names and addresses).

He shrugged. They did a lot of things different in California. The most
he had hoped for was a waiter's job or maybe a short order cook in a fry
joint. But if they wanted to ignore the hotel associations' black list,
he wouldn't argue.

Sextus Forsyte craved anonymity with the passion that most men seek fame
and glory. Beneath his suave, mature exterior beat the shrinking heart
of a perennial hermit whose delight was an adventure book and a bottle
of whiskey.

His recent employer had not objected to his fondness for reading nor
solitude, but his appetite for liquor had revealed itself in a series of
unfortunate crises which plague the life of any hotel executive.

Yes, Sextus Forsyte had sought his solitude in that remotest of all
places, the large city hotel. His career of smiling at strange faces,
welcoming famous people and snapping crisp commands to assistant
managers had provided the near-perfect isolation from normal society. To
the transient eye he was the poised, gregarious greeter. Actually he
lived in a deep well of introversion. Of course, this was no affair of
the succession of boards of directors who had uttered the harsh charges
of "dipsomania" and fired him. But then boards of directors are never
notable for their sympathy or understanding.

And finally word got around the eastern seaboard about Sextus. "A
competent man, yes. Drinks on the job. Wouldn't have him as a busboy."

Worse than the mere prospect of unemployment was the notoriety. Coldly
sober, Sextus had fled panic-stricken to the west coast, vaguely
determined to become a beach-comber or an oyster-fisherman or whatever
they did out there.

He stared now at the blue slip and turned in to a florist shop. He broke
his last five-dollar bill to buy a pink carnation for his buttonhole
then headed down the sunny walk to the hotel. It was a fine December
morning in the little beach town, such as only Florida and California
can advertise. He breathed the salt air and turned an appreciative ear
to the gentle wash of the Pacific surf. He felt so good he might even
take a little breakfast before his first drink of whiskey of the day.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the bus depot he traded his baggage checks for two old, but fine
leather, two-suiters. Then he taxied the remaining two blocks to the
Mahoney-Plaza.

He paused at the entrance, stepped from under the marquis and looked up
mystified. The frontage indicated a rather small hostelry to pay such
munificent salary to its general manager. Only five stories high, it was
squeezed in by low office buildings on either side like an ancient,
narrow-chested old man.

He handed his bags to a bell-hop and stepped into a spacious lobby. It
was decorated with fine furniture, thick carpets and throngs of
expensively undressed people.

The boy put his bags down before a remarkably long room-desk manned by
three white-suited clerks, but Sextus touched his arm. "Just take them
up to the manager's suite, please." The boy eyed him from carnation to
dusty shoes.

"Right off a park bench. It figures, though." He got a key from the desk
clerk, picked up the bags again and they started for the elevator
alcove.

Sextus' practiced eye vacuumed details from the lobby, the well-swept
carpets, freshly emptied sand-jars and the modern elevators. The place
seemed well-ordered and enjoying convention-magnitude business.

He started into the first elevator, but the operator warned, "To Wing
'A' only!" with such a question in his voice that Sextus looked back for
his bellman. That person, a sandy-haired stripling of some
five-feet-four, was trying to wave him on with his head.

"Not that one," he said impatiently. "Over here. Wing 'H'." Then Sextus
noticed there were five elevators on either side of the alcove. Each was
plainly marked with a letter, running from "A" through "J". This was a
new wrinkle. Elevators were a mode of strictly vertical transportation,
meaning, as a safe generality, that they travelled in parallel routes.
Why, then, differentiate for separate wings when they were all grouped
together in the first place?

And, incidentally, why _ten_ elevators for a 200 or so room hotel,
anyway?

They rode to the fourth floor in one-level leaps, stopping to unload
several guests on each floor. The upper floor hall was of modest length,
running fore and aft of the long, narrow building, as he had first sized
it up. Where were all the _wings_--the wings with the separate
elevators?

The boy let him into the light, airy apartment, dropped his bags in the
middle of the floor and started out abruptly. Sextus called him back.

"Yeah, what'll it be--Chief?" His voice was derisive.

"How many rooms do we have here, fellow?"

"Twenny-six hunnerd and all full for the season, so if you'll just leggo
of me--"

"Don't you enjoy your work here?"

"I detest it. Go ahead, fire me, chum. I'm lookin' for an excuse to
clear out."

"Very well, you have one. Check out with the captain." Sextus couldn't
tolerate discourteous familiarity. Friendly familiarity was bad enough,
but the "chum" did it.

The boy banged the door behind him.

Sextus opened his bag. From it he extracted a fifth of whiskey which he
took to the tiled bathroom. He stripped the cellophane from a drinking
glass, poured it half-full of the amber liquor and drained it.

He was in the shower when the phone rang. He dripped to the night stand
with the patience of one who has soaked many a rug and discovered that
they don't stain. "Forsyte here!" he answered.

"The new manager? Well, this is Jackson, bell-captain. Whadda you mean
canning Jerry? I'm down to twelve skippers and you start out by firing
one of my fastest boys!"

"The boy was sarcastic and insolent. Take it up with the service
manager. Anyway, how many bellmen do you need to run this cracker-box?
Twelve is about eight too many."

There was a brief silence, then: "In the first place _I am_ your service
manager, or all you got at the present. In the second damned place, you
tell me where I can lay my hands on ten more boys before you go canning
any more. I'm rehiring Jerry as of now!" He banged the receiver in
Sextus' ear.

Unperturbed, Sextus finished his shower, dressed in a lighter weight
suit and picked up the phone. The house switchboard apparently was
jammed. It took a full minute to get an operator. "Forsyte here. Your
new manager, that is. Instruct all department heads to be in my office
in seven minutes. General conference."

       *       *       *       *       *

Another short nip at the bottle served nicely to quiet a small hunger
pang. He went in search of his office. He found it on the mezzanine,
suitably lavish, clean and well-furnished.

He adjusted the fragrant carnation on his lapel in the large wall
mirror, not entirely displeased with what it reflected. Except for the
suitcase wrinkles in his morning coat, he should pass inspection. His
thinning hair, square jaw and wide-set eyes radiated a quiet dignity.
The slight pink of his cheeks and nose was a bit more prominent than he
liked. He should have had some breakfast.

The phone rang and he let it. He was not yet ready to assume his duties.
But as time passed and none of his staff appeared, the ring became more
significant. He gave in.

"Forsyte here!"

"Sorry, Mr. Forsyte," it was the operator, "but none of your staff can
join you just now. They send their regrets."

"Regrets?" Sextus said icily. "Did you explain who called this meeting,
young lady?"

Her voice dropped the synthetic sweetness and became a throaty rasp.
"Look, Buster, we're short-handed enough without you should call
meetings at eleven A. M. Plug the hole in your head. It's suckin' air."
He broke the connection. The place was busy, he'd grant, but this was
rank insubordination. His whole staff! Everyone seemed keyed to the
_boingg!_ point.

He decided to mull it over breakfast. The spacious, well-appointed
coffee-shop served his juice gelid and his coffee hot, his egg tender
and his toast crisp. The bit of tension vanished as he ate with relish.
He signed the check with his tight, little introverted signature.

Now for a quick inspection tour to see just how rough things really
were. He told the boy on the service elevator, "To the bottom." His
stomach writhed as the cage plummeted four floors below the street
level. The kitchens, laundry, warehouse, baggage-room, switchboard room,
ice-plant and personnel spaces sprawled through an acre of underground
levels. They boiled with sweating men and dishevelled women engaged in
the intricate business of housing, feeding, clothing, liquoring and
catering to a small city under one roof. Then he remembered how small
the quarters were upstairs.

How could they _house_ enough guests to justify all this?

Returning to his office he called the employment bureau. "Mr. Crowson?
Forsyte here! I'm at the hotel."

"Oh dear, what's wrong now?"

"You didn't tell me to whom I should report. This, ah, is my first
experience with employment agencies. Usually there is a board of
directors."

"Is that all?" Crowson sighed audibly. "You are in full charge, I assure
you. Our little interview was quite satisfactory. I have certified you
to your bookkeeping department, and you may draw upon your salary after
a week. Anything else?"

"Where may I reach the owner or the chairman in an emergency?"

"The owner is a Dr. Bradford who is in Hanford, Washington. Top secret
government work. He may not be contacted until he returns. Sorry, that's
all I can tell you. Getting on all right, Mr. Forsyte?" he asked with
obvious reluctance.

Sextus cut off. Two lights on the intercom were blinking at him. One
call was from the kitchen. The first chef had just heaved a cleaver at
the steward, and the head salad girl was in hysterics.

Sextus said he'd be right down. The second call was from the chief
house-detective. He had caught a bell-hop peddling marijuana to the
waitresses. What was the manager's new policy? Sextus told him to hold
the boy in the locker room for him. Then one of the room clerks rang to
say that Gary Gable, the movie star, was raising hell in the lobby
because he couldn't get the bridal suite and demanded to see the
manager.

Sextus smiled. These things were the routine of running a large hotel.
He stopped at the bar for a quick one and then started for the kitchen.

       *       *       *       *       *

The day passed pleasantly enough, and he looked forward to retiring to
his quiet rooms upstairs. He thought to get some intelligent answers
from his assistant manager when he walked in promptly at five P. M., but
he turned out to be a university student from Southern Cal, working days
on his master's degree in business administration and nights at the
hotel. No wonder he hadn't been promoted. Not that he wasn't
bright--just not experienced.

Sextus formally offered his hand and introduced himself. The lad said,
"I'm Horace Smith the phone is ringing excuse me." He snatched the phone
with a harried look.

Somehow the phone never stopped ringing. Sextus gave up and retired to
dress for dinner. He finished his fifth of whiskey and descended to the
hotel's swank Oceania Room, where he made himself known to the maitre
d'hotel. That frenzied little moustachioed person sniffed Sextus' breath
and seated him behind a potted palm.

Discreetly avoiding the wine list, Sextus dined well, noting several
movie stars and other vip's in the crowded dining room. He couldn't
escape the illusion that he was dining at the Ambassador or the Waldorf
Astoria--instead of in a five-story rat-trap. Where did they all come
from?

As he awaited the elevator, he was approached by the bell-captain. "Mr.
Forsyte?" Sextus nodded stiffly. "Here's an envelope Mr. Patterson left
for you. He was the last G. M. Incidentally, sorry I was a little rough
on the phone, but you can see our situation here. Understaffed and
overcrowded. It gets thick, real thick, brother."

Sextus felt his belly muscles tighten. "Confusion is never improved by
discourtesy or insubordination," he said coldly.

At that moment a bellman rushed up to the rebuffed captain who was
regarding Sextus with a restrained loathing. "The guy in C332 keeps
screaming for his beer, but the service elevator to 'C' vector keeps
dumping me off in 'F'."

The captain said, "Try riding to fourth on 'C' and then walk down a deck
and come out through the linen room."

"Can't I just ride up the guest elevator, Jack?"

The captain stared at Sextus. "Our Mr. Forsyte wouldn't approve. Now,
move!"

He turned to Sextus and said acidly, "Just one of our little extra
problems." He moved off with a disgusted shake of his carefully barbered
head.

The nature of the bell-captain's special problem sounded interesting,
but the details confused Sextus. _Ride to four on "C", walk down to
three and out by the linen closet._ Sounded like three-dimensional
chess.

His cage arrived and he returned to his suite. He removed his shoes,
stripped to the waist and sank gratefully into the soft bed, nestling
the last bottle of his suitcase reserve in the crook of his bare arm.

He considered the sealed envelope marked: TO MY SUCCESSOR. URGENT
MATTERS.

First he opened a fresh bottle and then the envelope. He flipped through
the papers. There were some tax reports ready for signature, two union
contracts up for renegotiation and an estimate on re-doing 520 rooms in
vectors "B" and "F". Vectors? Did they mean "Wings"?

The last paper was a personal letter, apparently addressed to him.
Before he could begin it the phone at his bedside jangled. Operator
said, "Would you take this, please, Mr. Forsyte? I dispatched a house
man, but the guest is hysterical."

Without awaiting his permission she cut in the woman. "Hello, manager?
There's a man in my bed!"

"What is your room number, madame?" Sextus asked with drowsy detachment.

"I'm in H-408," she said, and on the "8" her voice ran up the scale in a
quivering crescendo that launched Sextus briskly from his bed. H-408 was
his floor and his wing, luckily. He tore out of the suite and down the
hall without shirt or shoes.

The door stood ajar, and he pushed it open. In the middle of the floor,
still gabbling into the phone, stood a lumpy, pallid woman about his own
age, naked except for a pillow which she hugged fiercely to her navel.
Her bleached hair was a frayed bird's-nest.

In bed, decently clad in a pair of blue and white striped pajamas, was a
rather distinguished, gray-haired gentleman of about fifty, leaning on
one elbow and watching the woman with an expression of mild astonishment
and interest. To Sextus' practiced eye, the man was guilty of nothing.

The house detective arrived at that moment, but Sextus dismissed him
with a wave of his hand. He went in alone.

"I'm the manager, madam," he assured her. He noted that despite her
excited wails, her eyes drooped half shut. A bottle of sleeping pills on
the table was uncapped.

"Thizz man, thizz man, thizz man!" she kept repeating and pointing her
elbow at the bed. The man in question raised his eyebrows and shook his
head.

"Damndest sensation I ever felt," he said. "I'm Johnathan P. Turner,
attorney. Before I tell you my story, please check with the desk and
verify that I was assigned this room."

Sextus took the phone from the woman's pudgy hand which darted to rescue
the sagging pillow. The room-clerk reported that Mr. J. P. Turner was
registered to room 408, but in "J" vector, not "H".

Sextus' eyes swept the room. It was an unexplainable mess. Two sets of
luggage were jumbled on and around the baggage rack at the foot of the
bed. Rinsed out nylons hung from the shower rod, but a man's shaving kit
occupied the shelf over the lavatory. Despairing of ever arriving at a
sensible explanation, Sextus went to work.

Although hampered somewhat without his shirt, coat and tie, Sextus
managed to get Turner and his belongings transferred peaceably to
another room and the woman quieted down in bed with another sleeping
pill.

Then Turner was allowed to tell his story. "I had turned in early and
was lying there on my back reading the paper when suddenly I got the
most messy feeling all through me. It was like--oh, hell, I can't say
it. Anyhow, in just about a second, something went _thub!_--and there
she was in bed with me--naked!" he added with a shiver.

Sextus grasped at a straw. "How many did you have to drink this evening,
Mr. Turner?"

The attorney squirmed uncomfortably. "Well, quite a few, maybe, but not
enough to--"

Sextus shrugged one shoulder and turned to leave. "Understand, we don't
blame you a bit, sir. You know how these middle-aged women can carry on
when they get out on the town. You must have dozed off before she
slipped in."

"But my door was locked! I think," he added uncertainly.

"We won't breathe a word of it, Mr. Turner. Rest well!"

       *       *       *       *       *

Sextus padded silently back to his room in his stocking feet and took a
long pull at the whiskey. Funny thing, this. People often got into the
wrong hotel beds, but rarely with such impalpable excuses. He sighed and
picked up the letter from his predecessor again. It read:

     Welcome to the Phony-Plaza. (That name again.) You will be the
     fifth manager in 30 days. If you need the job as much as I
     thought I did you will probably ignore my advice, but here
     goes, anyway: RESIGN! BAIL OUT! SKIDOO! (The man was emphatic.)
     I can't tell you where they've got the 2600 rooms in this
     haunted ant-hill, but believe me, they are there, and you'll be
     sorry if you hang around long enough to prove it.

     _My_ predecessor left a garbled note about some _hyperspace_
     system that the owner, Dr. Bradford, has figured out. Actually,
     there are only 260 rooms, as you've probably surmised. But this
     Bradford, who is a nuclear physicist, by the way, has installed
     some sort of field generator in each elevator shaft that gives
     entry to these rooms at _ten different locations in time_. Room
     500, for instance, in Vector A is 10 years from Vector B. So
     when you run to capacity with, say, two people to the room, you
     have 5200 guests in 260 rooms! They all live by the same
     calendar, but in their rooms they are actually centuries apart.
     How do you like those apples?

     It's all quite neat and economical, what with the cost per
     front foot of this beach area zoned for business, and you'll
     find a dandy profit on the books, but start worrying, fellow!
     Things are beginning to happen. The maintenance engineer, who,
     incidentally, is quitting, too, says that the equipment in the
     shafts is wearing out, and the fields are pulsating or decaying
     or some damned thing. And we can't contact Dr. Bradford, who
     took the service manual with him.

     Maybe you are more experienced in this hotel business than I
     am, but I couldn't stand the gaff. One more mess like I barely
     managed to clean up this week and someone's going to the pokey.
     It won't be me.

     Good luck, if you insist on staying, but I warned you.

     (signed) Thornton K. Patterson

     P.S. The fire-marshall is on our necks because the windows are
     all sealed, but for God's sake, DON'T UNSEAL THEM!

       *       *       *       *       *

Sextus tossed the fantastic communication aside in disgust, but his mind
began to unreel a picture of the confusion he had witnessed down in the
service quarters: Bellboys and room-service waiters fighting for service
elevators; chambermaids trundling their little carts on the dead run;
the overworked laundry staff, laboring in a veritable sweatshop of
steamy chaos, swamped in a billowing backlog of sheets and towels. It
all pointed to a large hotel operation.

If so, where were the rooms? Refusing to argue further with himself, he
got undressed. Hyperspace or not, the people apparently were there, and
it was his job to serve them. He got a bucket of ice from room-service,
mixed an ice and whiskey highball and retreated into his private little
world between crisp sheets and the pages of a twenty-five-cent mystery
novel.

Arising early, he was girded for the summons from Miss Genevieve Hafner
in room H-408. He went to her room. Fully dressed and in the daylight
she was still a hollow-eyed mess. The only visible improvement was in
the bleached bird's-nest, now a prim, rolled circle on her unlovely
pate.

"What amends," she demanded, "do you intend to make for my terrible
experience last night? Is that horrid creature in jail?"

"Experience? Jail?" Sextus asked innocent-eyed. He asked that she tell
him about it. Exasperated, she went over the details. When she finished
he patted her hand and pointed to the sleeping pills. "You should see
your doctor."

"But my doctor _prescribed_ those pills," she whimpered, looking down
shyly at the hand which Sextus held gingerly. "They never made me
dream--before."

He bent and kissed the revolting hand. "You are much too lovely a lady
to have escaped from such a predicament as you describe without
suffering--shall we say, a more romantic--fate?"

Miss Hafner blushed at the thought and wavered between outrage and
ecstasy for a dangerous moment. With time-tested genius, Sextus withdrew
quietly and left her to her thoughts.

He _must_ get in touch with Dr. Bradford, atom business or not. This
place could blow sky-high any minute.

He slipped the key into his own door and entered his suite. He took two
brisk strides into his bedroom, tripped over a lady's overnight case and
sprawled into his unmade bed. Even as he landed he realized it had an
occupant, a gorgeous, strangely familiar blonde creature, touselled and
asleep hugging her pillow with a creamy arm. A crash from the bathroom
brought his head bouncing off the silken coverlet even as the girl
awakened with a scream and tangled them both with the bed clothes.

Gary Gable charged from the bathroom, face dripping and a tuft of lather
under each ear. "What in the Goddam hell--" He leaped for Sextus with
his internationally famous shoulders knotted into bunches of muscular
menace.

"I'm the hotel manager," Sextus blurted loudly. For once his
self-assurance wavered under fire. Even to himself his words explained
nothing.

Meanwhile, Gable tripped over one of Sextus' heavy suitcases and joined
the pair in bed. Another male voice issued from the bathroom, and as
they all thrashed about, Sextus became aware that a second female had
somehow appeared between Gable and his brand new bride. They came up
together, face to face, the beautiful, sleepy blonde and the very
wide-awake, queenly brunette. Now a pot-bellied little man in shorts and
undershirt emerged from the bathroom, his mouth a gaping hole in a fully
lathered face.

Sextus wriggled free, made for the door and off down the hall. To his
horror, the automatic signal light on the vector "H" elevator was
flickering and fading. The whole H-vector must be collapsing. He dashed
for the stairwell and then reconsidered. He moved to the end of the hall
which overlooked the low roof of the adjacent building. He tried the
window and remembered that it was sealed. Back in the alcove he seized
one of the sand jars and headed back for the window. A growing tide of
commotion swelled from behind almost every door now. Grunts, screams and
wrestling sounds came over the transoms.

He dashed the sand jar through the window, chipped off the jagged edges
with his heel and climbed out. It was a twenty-foot drop to security,
and he made it without hesitation. What could a man hope to do with a
mess like--

Spang! His feet struck, not with a crunch on gravelled tar, but into a
springy fabric that sagged under his 180 pounds, tossed him six feet in
the air, caught him on the rebound and then juggled him down with
diminishing bounces.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were waiting for him, as he regained his feet on the quivering
surface of a spring-loaded, canvas trampoline. The bright, mid-morning
sun blinded him for an instant, but their voices assailed his ears in a
mighty roar of approval as he squinted under his hand and peered around
him.

"Attaboy, Sexy," a shrill female voice piped. The roof-top was jammed
with a pressing throng of--nearly naked people. In the cleared
semi-circle about him a cordon of male bodies-beautiful restrained the
mob behind a rope from which a long streamer hung with letters reading:

     "WELCOME, SEXTUS, TO 2153 A. D."

Reaching over the edge of the canvas platform with outstretched hand was
a single, willowy, sun-baked oldster in a purple loin-cloth. His hair
and beard were a dazzling white, and his face was wreathed in a silly
smile, the kind officials always wear when presenting the keys to the
city.

He shuffled his white kid sandals and spoke with an accent: "Welcome to
2153, Sextus Rollo Forsyte! California salutes you!"

Somewhere down on the street a raucous brass band broke into the _Stars
and Stripes Forever_ that quickly medlied into _California, Here We
Come_!

Sextus shrank back against the wall and felt ancient bricks crumble into
dust against his hands. The magnitude of his disaster crushed in upon
shrinking soul, and as his nimble imagination grasped the stunning
significance every molecule of his being vibrated with horror. _He had
been warned not to open a window._

"You have fulfilled the legend," the old man sang joyously. "You are a
famous man." How famous, Sextus was forced to acknowledge as a
television boom snaked over the heads of the crowd trailing a wisp of
cable and cast its baleful, glassy eye full into his face.

"Two hundred years to the day, as my great-great-grandfather predicted.
I am Clark Bradford, direct descendent of--"

Sextus stared wildly up at the open window. He bounced once
experimentally. It was a fine trampoline, and he flipped a foot off the
surface. Next bounce he flexed his knees a little and gained another
foot. Now he doubled up purposefully.

The one-man-delegate in purple frowned. "Stop that. We are here to
welcome you and start the celebration at the Hollywood Bowl and--Stop
that, I say!" Now he sensed Sextus' incredible intent. "Officer, help
out here, please!"

A bulgy, bronzed fellow clad mainly in an immaculately white brassard
left the rope barrier and joined Bradford.

The Elder screamed, "You can't go back, Forsyte! Don't you understand?
You disappeared two centuries ago when the vector field collapsed. You
can't go back! You can't! This is your destiny!"

Sextus' heels soared five feet above the canvas and gained precious
altitude with each spring, but it was a precarious business the higher
he went. One slip and he'd glance off at a tangent and be captured by
those reaching, grasping obscene hands in the crowd. The thought almost
unseated his reason.

The police officer asked Bradford, "What would happen if he did go
back?" Then he added, "Ain't he got a right to?"

Bradford shuffled nervously. "I don't quite know. We never considered
such a--my God! Stop, man, stop. You'll change the whole course of
history! Stop him!"

The barelegged minion tried, but as he climbed up on the edge of the
trampoline Sextus bounced and kicked out with accuracy and
determination. The policeman sprawled back clutching air, and the crowd
roared.

One more bounce and a half twist, now. Sextus soared up, up, and his
hands touched the sill.

With the agility of desperation he clawed up and through the paneless
window.

"You don't know what you are doing," the old man screeched. "Stay here
and you'll be famous. If you go back it is to oblivion. Oblivion! Very,
well, _go_ back! _Go_ back, you--you nonentity!"

"You bet," Sextus panted to himself and tumbled onto the carpeted fourth
floor hallway of the Mahoney-Plaza hotel.

[Illustration]

Instantly, another voice, but without accent, accosted him shrilly from
down the hall. "You, there. You mister manager." Sextus sighed mightily
with relief. It was only Miss Genevieve Hafner holding a pimply-faced,
red-haired youth by the ear.

True, Gary Gable and two hair-pulling, female starlets bore down right
behind her, and rooms along both sides of the corridor were disgorging
eddies of indignant displaced persons.

But these were things he understood. These were just beefs. Somewhat
more involved than usual, but nothing much worse than a full-fledged
convention at mid-night.

He adjusted his mashed carnation, brushed the crumbles of old brick dust
from his morning coat and moved into the fray.

"Now, now, Miss Hafner! _What_ are you up to _this_ time?"





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Forsyte's Retreat, by Winston Marks

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FORSYTE'S RETREAT ***

***** This file should be named 32735.txt or 32735.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/7/3/32735/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
