The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Plotters, by Alexander Blade

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: The Plotters

Author: Alexander Blade

Release Date: June 13, 2010 [EBook #32801]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PLOTTERS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                             THE PLOTTERS

                          By ALEXANDER BLADE

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from Amazing Stories December
1948. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: He came from a far planet to find some of the Earth's
secrets. But Marko found other things, too--like his love for beautiful
Beth]


It seemed to be the same tree that kept getting in my way. I tried to go
around it but it moved with me and I ran right into it. I found myself
sprawled on my back and my nose was bleeding where I had hit it against
the tree. Then I got up and ran again.

I had to keep running. I didn't know why; I just had to. There was a
puddle of water and I splashed through it and then slipped and fell into
a thorny bush. When I got up there were scratches on my hands and face
and chest.

As yet I felt no pain. That wouldn't come for a while, after I had done
a lot more running. But at the moment I couldn't feel a thing.

In my conscious mind there was only a sort of grayness. I didn't know
where I was, or who I was, or why I was running. I didn't know that if I
ran long enough and bumped into enough trees and scratched myself often
enough I would eventually feel pain. Or that out of the exertion and the
pain would come awareness.

All that must have been there, but buried so deep it didn't come
through. It was only instinct which kept me going.

The same tree was in my way again and this time I didn't even try to go
around it. My breath was knocked out of me. After a few gasps it came
back, and then I was off again.

I went up a rise and down into a hollow and tripped over roots. That
time I didn't fall. I went up the other side of the hollow with the wind
whistling in my ears. A few drops of rain fell. There were flashes of
lightning in the sky.

Wet leaves whipped against my face and there was a crack of thunder so
close that it shook me. I ran away from the thunder and up another rise
and down into another hollow.

The wind was stronger now. It came in long blasts. Sometimes I ran with
it and sometimes against it. When I ran against it I didn't make much
headway, but my legs kept pumping. There was tall grass to slow me down
and there were roots to trip me. There was the wind and the thunder and
the lightning. And there were always trees.

And then there was a terrible flash and above me a crack that was not of
thunder. Something came crashing down. It was the limb of a tree. It
crashed against my chest and smashed me flat on my back and pinned me
there.

One of my ribs felt broken. It jabbed into me as I fought to raise this
weight from my chest, and this was a pain I could feel.

This was something that hurt as nothing had ever hurt me before. This
was excruciating. But it was the pain that cut through the grayness of
my mind, and because of that I welcomed it.

With the pain would come knowledge. I would know who I was and why I was
running. Already there were figures racing across the blankness. There
were faces and there were names: Ristal, Kresh, Marko, Copperd, Beth.

I was Marko. I knew that much already. Beth was the golden girl. Somehow
I knew that too. But who were the others?

It wasn't coming fast enough. I couldn't find the connections. There was
only one way to bring it back, to bridge the gaps. I had to start
somewhere, with what I knew. I had to start with myself and then bridge
the gap to Beth. That was the beginning.

       *       *       *       *       *

I checked with the mirror for the last time and decided that I would
pass muster. As far as I could see, I looked like almost any college
student.

There wasn't anything I could do about my hair. It hadn't grown at all.
It was a mass of short, black ringlets that fit my head like a tight
cap. But there was no use worrying about that.

Mrs. Mara came down the hall just as I was locking the door. She looked
hurt when she saw me turn the key.

"You don't have to do that in my house," she said. "There's nobody would
think of going into your room."

"Of course not," I said. "It's just force of habit, you know."

I smiled and hoped she would pass it off as lightly as I seemed to. The
last thing in the world I wanted was to have her get suspicious and go
prowling about my room. I felt easier when she smiled back at me.

"Sure. And where are you off to, now?"

"Swimming," I said. "That is, if I can get into the college pool."

"Just act like you own the place and nobody will ask you any questions,"
she said, and winked at me.

That was exactly the way I had figured it, but it was good to have
reassurance. Theoretically, no one was supposed to use the pool who was
not a member of the faculty or student body. Enforcement, however, was
lax, and the chances were that nobody would ask to see my card.

Mrs. Mara and I were right. The day was hot, and the men who were
supposed to be watching the entrance were sitting in the shade of the
stands and quenching their thirst with soft drinks. I walked right in,
looking straight ahead.

It was a large pool, used for skating in winter, and there were stands
built on three sides. Instead of going down to the locker rooms, I
merely slipped out of my shirt and trousers, rolled them into a ball and
dropped them beside the pool. A good many others had also worn their
swim suits underneath.

Then I looked around for the girl.

       *       *       *       *       *

She was down near the other end of the pool, talking to some people. As
I came toward them she left the group and climbed up on the diving
board.

Against her white bathing suit, her small trim figure showed golden. Her
hair was almost the same color. She looked like the bathing suit models
I had seen in store windows. The golden model came to life as she left
the board in a high, arching dive. She hit the water with hardly a
splash.

"Nice stuff, Beth," one of the men said as she swam toward them.

"Was it really, Ken?" the girl asked.

He nodded as he said it was. They began to talk about diving and
swimming. The man called Ken did most of the talking. He said he wanted
to show her a few things about her swimming stroke.

He jumped off the edge of the pool and swam across and then turned
around and swam back. Everybody stopped what they were doing and watched
him. When he clambered out he smiled in a very superior way.

"See what I mean? You've got to use your legs more."

"You splash too much," I said.

It was the only way I could think of at the moment to get into the
conversation. But it got me in. Everybody was looking at me as though I
were out of my mind. Ken sneered.

"Oh, I do?"

"Don't take it offensively," I said. "But you really do. Also your arm
motion is not good."

       *       *       *       *       *

He was so angry that it was almost funny. Now I was sorry I had spoken,
because the girl might be a close friend of his and she might take
offense.

"Maybe you would like to show me how it's done," Ken said hotly. "I
could make it worth your while. Suppose we race two lengths. For ten
dollars."

"That's not fair, Ken," the girl said.

I could see that she didn't like the way he was taking it, so that was
all right. But I hesitated. I didn't have ten dollars. On the other
hand, I had been watching these people swim.

It was an easy way to make ten dollars, since I had no other means of
getting money. There was the hundred dollars which I had taken from a
man on the road the day I came into town, but that money was gone.

"Come on," I said, and started walking to the end of the pool.

When I got there I bent and dipped one foot into the water. It was
colder than the water I had been used to, and not quite as heavy,
somehow. I pulled my foot out quickly and everybody laughed, except the
girl.

"This isn't right," she said. She turned to me. "You don't know who Ken
is, apparently."

"You are very kind," I said. I smiled at her and she smiled back. She
had blue eyes.

By that time the pool had been cleared. Everybody was out of the water
and standing at the edge. Ken said, "Whenever you're ready."

"I am ready now," I said. And immediately one of his friends gave the
signal, "Go!"

Ken jumped in first. Then I dived in. Once in the water it did not feel
so cold nor so light. I swam down to the other end and turned around and
swam back. When I climbed out, Ken was just making his turn at the far
end. Everyone was looking at me very strangely. Ken came out rubbing his
shoulder.

"Must have pulled a muscle," he muttered.

"In that case I wouldn't think of taking your money," I told him.

"I don't believe I've seen you around before," he said. "You've got to
have a card to swim here, you know.'

"Well, I don't have one. So I suppose I had better go."

"Of all the cheap tricks," the girl said. "I think I'll go too. Wait for
me."

I waited for her while she went to get dressed. I put on my trousers
over my swimming trunks, put on my shirt and shoes and sat on a bench
and waited. When she came out we started for the exit. Ken came hurrying
toward us.

"I thought I was taking you home," he said, his face red with anger.

She didn't bother to reply and he put his hand on her arm. I told him to
let go and he let go. Then he swung around and hit me on the jaw with
all his might. I grabbed his arm with one hand and his throat with the
other and threw him into the middle of the pool.

       *       *       *       *       *

Things were going better than I expected. As we walked along, she seemed
quite interested in me. I told her my name and she told me that she was
Beth Copperd, the daughter of a professor at the university. I pretended
that I had not known those things.

When we got to her home, which was on a tree lined street, we paused for
a moment. Across the street there was a car with a man sitting in it,
pretending to read a newspaper.

I knew all about that man. I knew there was another man who was watching
the back of the house. If not for that I would not have had to go
through this lengthy affair with Beth Copperd.

"I regret very much this trouble with your friend," I said.

"You needn't. He's had it coming for a long time." She stared at me
thoughtfully. "You know, Marko, I'm a little afraid of you."

"Of me? But why?"

"Well," she hesitated, "it's hard to say. But when a man jumps into a
pool and swims so much faster than one of our country's best swimmers,
and then picks up that swimmer and throws him fifty feet without the
slightest effort ... well, that man is slightly unusual, to say the
least."

"Oh, the swimming...."

I hadn't thought that what was quite ordinary for me might seem exactly
the opposite to these people. I had blundered. So I tried to shrug it
off, as though such things were common among my people. Which they were.
But that line only dragged me deeper. This girl was no fool.

"That's what I meant, Marko. You aren't being modest. You're acting as
though you're used to such feats, and take them as a matter of course.
And there's your accent. I can't quite place it."

"Some day I'll tell you all about it," I said lightly. "When we know
each other better."

"That's going pretty fast, isn't it?"

"Some of us have found that we don't have all the time we should like.
We must go fast, or not at all."

It was a platitude, slightly jumbled, but none the less true. Beth was
looking up at me. There were things she might have noticed; that my skin
was uncommonly smooth, and that I hadn't even the faintest trace of
whiskers.

She didn't notice those things. She was looking into my eyes. I found
myself enjoying this experience.

"Will you come in for a while?" she asked slowly.

I relaxed. Everything was all right, for the present. She was taking me
at face value. She liked me and I liked her. The operation was
proceeding smoothly.

We walked into a large room, pleasantly furnished. On a couch opposite
the doorway three men sat talking. Two others stood before them. The
moment we entered, the conversation stopped abruptly.

"Beth?" said a tall, graying man. He was already stuffing papers into a
bag. "Back so soon?"

He wasn't really listening for a reply and Beth didn't make one. When he
had the papers in the bag he locked it, then snapped it around his wrist
and put the key in his pocket.

"We'll continue this at the lab," he said to the men. "I'll be along in
just a few minutes." Then he came up to us.

"I see you've replaced your blond young man," he smiled.

I knew all about this man who stood before me, with his stooped
shoulders and keen eyes. Eldeth Copperd would have been surprised at the
extent of my knowledge. I even knew why his government considered it
wise to have several of its security agents near him at all times.

"Can't you stay a minute and get acquainted with Marko?" Beth was
saying. "He's really a remarkable fellow. He can swim faster than you or
I could run."

"Literally? That would be quite fast."

"Literally."

He looked at me with sudden interest and I was sorry the conversation
had taken that turn. I didn't want those keen eyes examining me too
closely. They might note the absence of skin porosity.

Copperd didn't notice, but I made a mental note to watch my step. And
another not to go swimming again. Beth would be watching me, and if she
were close enough she might see the webbing pop out between my fingers
and toes when I got into the water.

"That's my father," Beth said after he and I had shaken hands and he had
left. "Demands exactness. He's a scientist, you know. A physicist."

"Oh?" I said. As if I hadn't known. "Is he always this busy?"

"Busier. If he isn't working at the lab till all hours, he's working at
home in his study. Or having conferences. The only time I have him alone
and to myself is Sunday evening."

That was the information I had been hoping for.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beth and I sat on the couch her father had vacated. We talked. I watched
my words carefully; there were a good many commonplace things I knew
nothing about. And I didn't want any more questions about myself.
Fortunately, conversation between a young man and a young woman is much
the same everywhere. I didn't have to pretend I was interested in Beth.
She was unusually attractive. And she seemed to find me so.

We talked a bit, laughed a good deal, and when I got up to leave I knew
that I had done well in the initial stage. But there was still a good
deal to be done.

"May I see you tonight?" I asked. "Just a 'coke date'."

That was an expression I'd heard and had taken the trouble to make
certain I understood. It seemed to be just the thing in the present
case.

"I'd like that," Beth said. "Pick me up about nine."

Her choice of time could not have been more suitable. I was out of
money. There was Mrs. Mara to be paid, and now the cost of the evening's
entertainment.

Until darkness fell I could do nothing about that. So I went back to my
room and read old newspapers I had collected. I had discovered on my
first day that those were the best sources of information. Those and the
moving pictures.

For one who must learn a great deal about a people in a short time there
is one infallible way: watch them in their favorite sports and
relaxations. The moving pictures and the comic strips had been
invaluable. In another few weeks I could have passed anywhere.

At eight o'clock it was growing dark. I changed my shirt, put on a sport
coat and left the room. Five minutes later I was walking down a quiet
street that was lined with fashionable homes.

After that it was merely a question of time. I went around the block,
found that it was still too light, and went around again, this time
slowly.

There was only one man on the street on my next time around. I sized him
up quickly and decided that he was prosperous. He came on toward me. I
managed to be looking the other way.

We bumped into each other and he fell. I said, "Sorry" and bent to help
him up. My fingers touched his throat in the proper places and he went
limp.

Within a matter of seconds I had his wallet out of his pocket and
extracted several bills. When his eyes flickered again I was just
raising him to his feet.

"All my fault," I said contritely. "Are you all right?"

"Seem to be." He was gruff, but that was all. He didn't know that for a
matter of seconds he had been unconscious.

At nine o'clock I came up the walk to the Copperd home. This time the
security agent was leaning against a tree, lighting a cigarette. I made
certain that he saw my face clearly.

One upstairs window showed a light, and the faint murmur of voices
drifted down. That had to be Copperd's room. Then a porch light flashed
on and Beth came out of the door. She was wearing a white dress and the
overhead light seemed to create a golden halo above her head.

I momentarily forgot about her father.

       *       *       *       *       *

How much can a man learn in a few weeks? I had to be so very careful.
Historical matters had to be avoided at all costs. Contemporary affairs
were fine. Philosophy was best.

Philosophy is always the best. Good and evil are present everywhere.
They can be discussed in the vaguest terms. We discussed many things in
vague terms.

And yet there was a sense of intimacy which grew between us. It was hard
for me to define, and after a while I gave up trying to discover what it
was. I merely enjoyed it.

When I took her home I knew that it was not fear of the dark that made
her walk so close to me. The movies had taught me a great deal about
this matter of love play. Although some of it was highly exaggerated, it
showed clearly enough the drives of these people, and some of their
methods of acting them out.

We were standing on the porch when I kissed Beth. It was the first time
I had ever pressed my lips to those of anyone else. My technique was
good. I felt Beth respond, pressing harder against me.

My mission was on its way to completion. I felt a moment of triumph. And
then suddenly, crazily, my mission was gone from my mind. I felt only a
strange exhilaration that swept over me and made my heart pound and my
head grow hot.

"What's the matter, Marko?" Beth asked as I pulled away.

I didn't know what was wrong. I didn't try to figure it out. I had to
get out of there and try to regain my equilibrium. On a mission like
mine I had to keep my head.

"Shall I see you tomorrow?" I said.

"All the tomorrow's you want," Beth answered.

There was eagerness, and yet a note of regret. It was as though she
instinctively knew that something was wrong. But my work had been well
done; she was in too far, and I had cut her emotional line of retreat.

I saw Beth the next afternoon, and the next evening. My presence on the
porch and in her home became such a common thing that the security agent
hardly gave me a glance now.

Those few days passed by swiftly, and yet each hour in those days was
long. I was very cautious; Beth and I kissed many times but I never
allowed myself to be moved as on that first time.

Sunday loomed larger and larger, closer and closer. I was a constant and
ever present guest. It was an elementary matter to get Beth to invite me
for Sunday dinner. The invitation came on Saturday night, and that night
when I came back to my room I called Ristal for the first time since we
had arrived.

"Tomorrow," I said into the _besnal_. "Early evening."

"Good."

That was all we said, but it was enough. Our frequency was too high to
be picked up. Still, we were taking no chances. Ristal knew precisely
what I meant and he would be ready.

I had the feeling that comes when a mission is about to be completed.
There was a feeling of tension, and yet for the first time in my career
I had a lowering of spirits that I could not explain.

The feeling persisted until late Sunday afternoon. Then I pushed it from
my mind. I dressed carefully, slipped the _besnal_ into my inner pocket,
and put my _del_ gun in my coat pocket.

"Take your coat off," Beth said when I came in. "You ought to know
there's no formality here."

"I'm really quite comfortable," I told her. "Am I late?"

"No. Just on time. Dad will be down in a moment."

He came down the stairs from his study while we were talking. He greeted
me warmly, and yet I felt that this time he was scrutinizing me. All
during the dinner his eyes were on me, weighing me. I felt what was
coming, and as we rose from the table it came.

"I hope you won't be offended, Marko," Copperd said. "But there are some
strange things about you. Do you ever shave?"

"No," I said. I looked out the window and saw it was growing darker.

"That's odd. And about your hair ... have you ever realized that every
strand of it grows in a different direction? You could never comb it.
Your skin is of an unusually fine texture. And when you reached for
something at the table I observed strange folds of skin between your
fingers. You are somehow not like the rest of us."

"Naturally," I said. It didn't matter now. It was dark enough.

"Why naturally?"

"Because," I told him, "I am a Venusian."

       *       *       *       *       *

My tone was matter of fact. Yet they knew that I was not joking. Beth
was staring at me, a growing fear and horror in her eyes. Her father
seemed dazed by the revelation. I took the _del_ gun from my pocket and
showed it to them.

"This is a weapon strange to you. But it is effective at this range.
Please don't make me use it."

"But what do you want?" Copperd asked.

"I want you to take a ride with me. In your car."

I let them put on their coats and then we walked out onto the porch and
down the stairs. Across the street the security agent barely glanced at
us. Then we got into Copperd's car, Beth and he in the front seat and I
in the back. I told him in which direction to go.

At the outskirts of town we lost the car that was following us. I had
planned this part of it perfectly. We pulled into a side road and turned
off our lights. The agent went right past us.

"What is it you want of me?" Copperd said as we started up again.

"We want to have a long discussion with you about some matters on which
you are an authority."

"And that's what this whole affair with me was for? So that you could
get to my father!" Beth said accusingly. I saw her shoulders shake.

"Yes. Now turn off here."

We turned off the main road and followed a rutted trail onto an old
farm.

The farmhouse was a wreck, but the barn still good. Our ship was in
there.

The door opened as we walked toward the barn. Ristal's tall figure was
framed in the doorway, and behind him stood Kresh, broad and ungainly.
The others crowded up behind them.

"Good work, Marko," Ristal said. We went into the ship, which filled the
whole interior of the barn.

"This is Commander Ristal, of the Venusian Intelligence," I told Copperd
and Beth.

"What's _your_ official title?" Beth asked bitterly.

"I am a special agent and language expert," I told her. Then I explained
why I had brought them here.

"Our civilization is in some way far in advance of yours. As you see, we
have mastered interplanetary travel. But it is essentially a peaceful
civilization. Our weapons, such as we have, are of limited range and
power.

"When it became known that Earth was developing monstrous weapons of
aggression we realized that we must be prepared for the worst. There was
only one way to discover what you already had and what you were working
on. Once we arrived here we found that a man named Copperd was the prime
figure in his country's atomic weapons research. It became our duty to
seek him out."

"I see," Copperd grunted. "And now you expect me to reveal secrets which
I am bound by oath to protect with my very life?"

"You will reveal them," Ristal told him.

I didn't like the way Ristal said that. There was a tinge of cruelty in
his tone and in the sudden tightening of his lips. I hadn't ever worked
with him before, or with Kresh, who was Ristal's second in command, but
I didn't like the methods their manner implied. Copperd looked worried.

"I told you we were a peaceful people," I put in.

"Let me handle this," Ristal said. He pointed to a machine which stood
in a corner.

"That," he explained to Copperd, "is a device which we ordinarily use in
surgery and diagnosis. It has the faculty of making the nerves
infinitely more sensitive to stimuli. Also to pain. Do you understand?"

"You can't use that on him!" I said. Ristal looked at me strangely.

"Of course not. But on his daughter, yes. No father likes to see his
daughter suffer."

"That's out," I said flatly. "You know what our orders are."

"I know what they were. This is my own idea, Marko. Please remember that
I am commander here."

I was duty bound to obey him, and I thought that I _was_ going to obey.
But as Kresh stepped toward Beth I found myself between them.

"I think that those higher up may have something to say about this," I
told Ristal.

"With the information this man can give me I shall be in a position to
ignore those higher up," Ristal grinned.

Kresh reached for Beth and I hit him. I knew now what Ristal had in
mind. With atomic weapons he could make himself master of Venus, and of
Earth. But even more important than that was the thought that he must
not harm Beth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Kresh was coming back at me. I hit him again and he went down. Then the
others came piling in. There were four of them, too many for me. I
fought like a madman but they overwhelmed me and held me helpless.

"Give him a shot of _bental_," Ristal ordered. "That ought to quiet him.
Then dump him in a cabin. We'll dispose of him later."

Then Kresh was coming at me with the hypodermic needle. I felt it stab
into my arm. He gave me a dose that might have killed an ordinary man.

I knew how _bental_ worked. It was a drug that would throw me into a
stupor, that would render my mind blank. Already it was taking effect. I
pretended to be unconscious. Two men lifted me and carried me to a
cabin, dropped me on the bunk and went out. The last thing I saw from
beneath my lids was Beth being dragged toward that diabolical machine.

My senses were leaving me. I knew that I had to overcome the effects of
the drug. I knew that I had to get out of that cabin. Somehow I dragged
myself out of the bunk and got a porthole open. I crawled through it and
dropped to the floor of the barn.

There were some loose boards and I pried them further apart and crawled
out into the open. I no longer knew what I was doing; I no longer
remembered Beth. I only knew that I had to run and keep on running.

       *       *       *       *       *

My broken rib was stabbing into me like a knife. Across my chest the
limb of the tree was a dead weight that crushed me. But now I knew who I
was and what I was doing.

Despite the agony I managed to get my hands under the limb. I pushed up
and felt it move. The pressure on my chest was gone. Inch by inch I slid
out from beneath the huge branch. I staggered to my feet.

How much time had elapsed I didn't know. I was running again, but now I
was running toward the dark barn. It wouldn't have taken Ristal long to
get started. Maybe by now Beth was.... I shut the thought from my mind.

I was a few hundred yards away when the first scream came. Through the
wind and the pelting rain it came, and it chilled me more than they had
done.

My chest was aflame with every panting breath I took. But I ran as I had
never run before. I had to get there before she screamed again. I had to
stop them from doing this to her.

The barn door was locked. I got my fingers under the edge and ripped the
wood away from the lock and went on through and into the ship.

None of them saw me coming. Copperd was tied in a chair, his face
contorted and tears streaming down his face. Three of the men held Beth
while Ristal and Kresh worked over her. The rest were watching.

They hadn't taken my _del_ gun from me. But I couldn't use it for fear
of hitting Beth. I had it out of my pocket and in my hand as I charged
across the room.

       *       *       *       *       *

My rush brought me into point-blank range on a line parallel with Beth's
prostrate figure. At the same time her torturers wheeled about to face
me, trapped for an instant in the paralysis of complete surprise. Ristal
was the first to recover.

"Drop the gun, Marko," he said.

In my weakened condition, habit governed my reflexes. I almost obeyed
the order. Then Ristal took a single step forward and I swung the muzzle
of the gun upward again.

"You almost had me," I said. "But you are no longer in command. You and
Kresh will return as prisoners, to face trial."

I hoped that he would accept the inevitable. Our crew could plead that
they had done nothing except follow the orders of their commanding
officer. But for Kresh and Ristal there could be no mitigating
circumstances.

They would stand trial and they would receive the harshest of
punishments, exile. It was a bleak outlook for them, and the bleakness
was reflected in their faces. Ristal's hand flicked to his gun.

[Illustration: I pulled the trigger and a sizzling bolt of energy leaped
forth]

I fired once and there was the smell of searing flesh.

"Kresh?" I asked. He looked down at the faceless figure on the floor and
shook his head.

He raised his elbows, leaving his holster exposed. I nodded to one of
the crewmen and he stepped forward and removed Kresh's _del_ gun.

"Drop it on the floor," I said. "Then tear off his insignia and lock him
in the forward cabin."

It was the end of the mutiny. But I felt no joy at that. My chest pained
intolerably, my shoulders sagged in exhaustion. And I had failed in my
mission.

Beth was all right. I went to her and tore the electrodes from her
wrists and ankles and helped her to her feet. She refused to look at me,
even allowing me to untie her father by myself.

"I regret that it turned out this way," I said.

"How could it turn out any other way?" Beth demanded suddenly. "Do you
think we'd trust you now?"

Off in the night a siren wailed. I listened while another siren joined
the first.

"They're already looking for you," I said. "Which shows how little
chance I would have had of getting to you openly. You'd better be going
now."

But as I led them to the door I knew I had to make one more attempt.

"Professor Copperd, do you think there might still be hope? We of Venus
can offer much to Earth."

"Maybe there _is_ hope," he said, and he looked brighter than I had ever
seen him look. "I was reaching the point where I had no faith in the
future. But now, knowing that you have solved the problems which we
face.... Perhaps, if the proper arrangements were made.... But you would
be risking a great deal to return. And I can assure you that for a long
time Venus will be safe. So you have no reason--"

"I have a good reason for coming back," I interrupted. Taking Beth by
the shoulders, I swung her about to face me.

"I love you," I said. "I started out to trick you and ended by loving
you."

Then her arms were about me and her lips were on mine. I felt my face
wet with her tears, and I knew that my love was returned. There were
still problems to face, dangers to overcome, but they didn't matter.

"It may be a year," I said. "Perhaps two years."

"I'll be waiting. I'll be standing here, waiting for you."

Now the sirens were very close and there were searchlights sweeping the
fields and the woods. I watched Beth and her father walking away and
then I closed the door. I should have felt sad, but I didn't. A year or
two weren't much. On this planet far from my own, I was leaving my
heart, and I would return one day to redeem it.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Plotters, by Alexander Blade

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PLOTTERS ***

***** This file should be named 32801.txt or 32801.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/8/0/32801/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
