The Project Gutenberg EBook of World Beyond Pluto, by C. H. Thames

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: World Beyond Pluto

Author: C. H. Thames

Illustrator: NOVICK

Release Date: June 15, 2010 [EBook #32820]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WORLD BEYOND PLUTO ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                             WORLD BEYOND PLUTO

                         A "Johnny Mayhem" Adventure

                              By C. H. THAMES

                             ILLUSTRATOR NOVICK

[Transcriber Note: This etext was produced from Amazing Stories November
1958. Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S.
copyright on this publication was renewed.]


[Sidenote: Johnny Mayhem, one of the most popular series characters
ever to appear in AMAZING, has been absent too long. So here's good
news for Mayhem fans; another great adventure of the Man of Many
Bodies.]


They loaded the over-age spaceship at night because Triton's one
spaceport was too busy with the oreships from Neptune during the day to
handle it.

"Symphonies!" Pitchblend Hardesty groaned. Pitchblend Hardesty was the
stevedore foreman and he had supervised upwards of a thousand loadings
on Triton's crowded blastways, everything from the standard mining
equipment to the innards of a new tavern for Triton City's so-called
Street of Sin to special anti-riot weapons for the Interstellar
Penitentiary not 54 miles from Triton City, but never a symphony
orchestra. And most assuredly never, never an all-girl symphony
orchestra.

"Symphonies!" Pitchblend Hardesty groaned again as several stevedores
came out on the blastway lugging a harp, a base fiddle and a kettle
drum.

"Come off it, Pitchblend," one of the stevedores said with a grin. "I
didn't see you staying away from the music hall."

That was true enough, Pitchblend Hardesty had to admit. He was a small,
wiry man with amazing strength in his slim body and the lore of a solar
system which had been bypassed by thirtieth century civilization for the
lures of interstellar exploration in his brain. While the symphony--the
all-girl symphony--had been playing its engagement at Triton's
make-shift music hall, Hardesty had visited the place three times.

"Well, it wasn't the music, sure as heck," he told his critic now. "Who
ever saw a hundred girls in one place at one time on Triton?"

The stevedore rolled his eyes and offered Pitchblend a suggestive
whistle. Hardesty booted him in the rump, and the stevedore had all he
could do to stop from falling into the kettle drum.

       *       *       *       *       *

Just then a loud bell set up a lonely tolling and Pitchblend Hardesty
exclaimed: "Prison break!"

The bell could be heard all over the two-hundred square miles of
inhabitable Triton, under the glassite dome which enclosed the small
city, the spaceport, the immigration station for nearby Neptune and the
Interstellar Penitentiary. The bell hadn't tolled for ten years; the
last time it had tolled, Pitchblend Hardesty had been a newcomer on
Neptune's big moon. That wasn't surprising, for Interstellar
Penitentiary was as close to escape-proof as a prison could be.

"All right, all right," Pitchblend snapped. "Hurry up and get her
loaded."

"What's the rush?" one of the stevedores asked. "The gals ain't even
arrived from the hotel yet."

"I'll tell you what the rush is," Pitchblend declared as the bell tolled
again. "If you were an escaped prisoner on Triton, just where would you
head?"

"Why, I don't know for sure, Pitchblend."

"Then I'll tell you where. You'd head for the spaceport, fast as your
legs could carry you. You'd head for an out-going spaceship, because it
would be your only hope. And how many out-going spaceships are there
tonight?"

"Why, just two or three."

"Because all our business is in the daytime. So if the convict was smart
enough to get out, he'll be smart enough to come here."

"We got no weapons," the stevedore said. "We ain't even got a
pea-shooter."

"Weapons on Triton? You kidding? A frontier moon like this, the place
would be blasted apart every night. Interstelpen couldn't hold all the
disturbers of the peace if we had us some guns."

"But the convict--"

"Yeah," Pitchblend said grimly. "He'll be armed, all right."

Pitchblend rushed back to the manifest shed as the bell tolled a third
time. He got on the phone and called the desk of the Hotel Triton.

"Hardesty over at the spaceport," he said. "Loading foreman."

"Loading foreman?" The mild, antiseptic voice at the other end of the
connection said it as you would say talking dinosaur.

"Yeah, loading foreman. At night I'm in charge here. Listen, you the
manager?"

"The manager--" haughtily--"is asleep. I am the night clerk."

"O.K., then. You tell those hundred girls of yours to hurry. Don't scare
them, but have you heard about the prison break?"

"Heard about it? It's all I've been hearing. They--they want to stay and
see what happens."

"Don't let 'em!" roared Pitchblend. "Use any excuse you have to. Tell
'em we got centrifigal-upigal and perihelion-peritonitus over here at
the spaceport, or any darn thing. Tell 'em if they want to blast off
tonight, they'll have to get down here quick. You got it?"

"Yes, but--"

"Then do it." Pitchblend hung up.

The escape bell tolled a fourth time.

       *       *       *       *       *

His name was House Bartock, he had killed two guards in his escape, and
he was as desperate as a man could be. He had been sentenced to
Interstelpen for killing a man on Mars in this enlightened age when
capital punishment had been abolished. Recapture thus wouldn't mean
death, but the prison authorities at Interstelpen could make their own
interpretations of what life-in-prison meant. If House Bartock allowed
himself to be retaken, he would probably spend the remaining years of
his life in solitary confinement.

He walked quickly now, but he did not run. He had had an impulse to run
when the first escape bell had tolled, but that would have been foolish.
Already he was on the outskirts of Triton City because they had not
discovered his escape for two precious hours. He could hole up in the
city, lose himself somewhere. But that would only be temporary.

They would find him eventually.

Or, he could make his way to the spaceport. He had money in his
pocket--the dead guard's. He had a guardsman's uniform on, but stripped
of its insignia it looked like the jumper and top-boots of any spaceman.
He had false identification papers, if needed, which he had worked on
for two years in the prison printshop where the prison newspaper was
published. He had....

Suddenly he flattened himself on the ground to one side of the road,
hugging the gravel and hardly daring to breathe. He'd heard a vehicle
coming from the direction of Interstelpen. It roared up, making the
ground vibrate; its lights flashed; it streaked by trailing a jet of
fire.

House Bartock didn't move until the afterglow had faded. Then he got up
and walked steadily along the road which led from Interstelpen to Triton
City.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Girls! Hurry with your packing! Girls!"

Sighing, Matilda Moriarity subsided. The girls, obviously, were in no
hurry. That would have been out of character.

Matilda Moriarity sighed again. She was short, stocky, fifty-two years
old and the widow of a fabulously wealthy interstellar investment
broker. She had a passion for classical music and, now that her husband
had been dead three years, she had decided to exercise that passion. But
for Matilda Moriarity, a very out-going fifty-two, exercising it had
meant passing it on. The outworlds, Matilda had told her friends, lacked
culture. The highest form of culture, for Matilda, was classical music.
Very well. She would bring culture to the outworlds.

       *       *       *       *       *

Triton was her first try and even now sometimes she had to pinch herself
so she'd know the initial attempt had been a smashing success. She
didn't delude herself completely. It had been a brainstorm selecting
only girls--and pretty young things, at that--for the Interstellar
Symphony. On a world like Triton, a world which played host to very few
women and then usually to the hard types who turned up on any frontier
in any century, a symphony of a hundred pretty girls was bound to be a
success.

But the music, Matilda Moriarity told herself. They had listened to the
music. If they wanted to see the girls in their latest Earth-style
evening gowns, they had to listen to the music. And they had listened
quietly, earnestly, apparently enjoying it. The symphony had remained on
Triton longer than planned, playing every night to a full house. Matilda
had had the devil's own time chaperoning her girls, but that was to be
expected. It was their first taste of the outworlds; it was the
outworlds' first taste of them. The widow Moriarity had had her hands
full, all right. But secretly, she had enjoyed every minute of it.

"They say the bell means a prison break!" First Violin squealed
excitedly. First Violin was twenty-two, an Earth girl named Jane
Cummings and a student at the conservatory on Sirtus Major on Mars, but
to the widow Moriarity she was, and would remain, First Violin. That
way, calling the girls after their instruments, the widow Moriarity
could convince herself that her symphonic music had been of prime
importance on Triton, and her lovely young charges of secondary
importance.

"How many times do I have to tell you to hurry?"

"But these gowns--"

"Will need a pressing when you return to Mars anyway."

"And a prison break. I never saw a prison break before. It's so
exciting."

"You're not going to see it. You're just going to hear about it. Come
on, come on, all of you."

At that moment the room phone rang.

"Hello?" the widow Moriarity said.

"This is Jenkins, ma'am, desk. The spaceport called a few minutes ago.
I'm not supposed to frighten you, but, well, they're rather worried
about the prison break. The escaped convict, they figure, will head for
the spaceport. Disguised, he could--"

"Let him try masquerading as a member of _my_ group!" the widow
Moriarity said with a smile.

"All the same, if you could hurry--"

"We are hurrying, young man."

"Yes, ma'am."

The widow Moriarity hung up. "Gi-irls!"

The girls squealed and laughed and dawdled.

       *       *       *       *       *

House Bartock felt like laughing.

He'd just had his first big break, and it might turn out to be the only
one he needed. On an impulse, he had decided to strike out directly for
the spaceport. He had done so, and now stood on the dark tarmac between
the manifest shed and the pilot-barracks. And, not ten minutes after he
had reached the spacefield a cordon of guards rushed there from
Interstelpen had been stationed around the field. Had Bartock arrived
just a few minutes later, he would have been too late, his capture only
a matter of time. As it was now, though, he had a very good chance of
getting away. Circumstances were in his favor.

He could get so far away that they would never find him.

It was simple. Get off Triton on a spaceship. Go anyplace that had a big
spaceport, and manage to tranship out in secret. Then all the police
would have to search would be a few quadrillion square miles of space!

But first he had to leave Triton.

From the activity at the port, he could see that three ships were being
made ready for blastoff. Two of them were purely cargo-carriers, but the
third--Bartock could tell because he saw hand-luggage being
loaded--would carry passengers. His instinct for survival must have been
working overtime: he knew that the third ship would be his best bet, for
if he were discovered and pursued, hostages might make the difference
between recapture and freedom.

Bartock waited patiently in the darkness outside the pilot-barracks. The
only problem was, how to discover which pilot belonged to which ship?

The cordon of police from Interstelpen had set up several score
arc-lights on the perimeter of the field. The spaces between the lights
were patrolled by guards armed, as Bartock was, with blasters. Bartock
could never have made it through that cordon now. But it wasn't
necessary. He was already inside.

The barracks door opened, and a pilot came out. Tensing, ready, Bartock
watched him.

The three ships were scattered widely on the field, _Venus Bell_ to the
north, _Star of Hercules_ to the south, _Mozart's Lady_ to the east.
_Venus Bell_ and _Star of Hercules_ were straight cargo carriers.
_Mozart's Lady_--what a queer name for a spaceship, Bartock couldn't
help thinking--had taken in hand luggage. So if the pilot who had just
left the barracks headed east, Bartock would take him. The pilot paused
outside, lit a cigarette, hummed a tune. The scent of tobacco drifted
over to Bartock. He waited.

The pilot walked east toward _Mozart's Lady_.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Ready, girls?"

"Ready, Mrs. Moriarity. But couldn't we--well--sort of hang around until
we see what happens?"

"You mean the escaped convict?"

"Yes, ma'am." Hopefully.

"They'll catch him. They always catch them."

"But--"

"Come on."

"Aw, gosh, Mrs. Moriarity."

"I said, come on."

Reluctantly, the hundred girls trooped with their chaperone from the
hotel.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bartock struck swiftly and without mercy.

The blaster would make too much noise. He turned it around, held it by
the barrel, and broke the pilot's skull with it. In the darkness he
changed clothing for the second time that night, quickly, confidently,
his hands steady. In the darkness he could barely make out the pilot's
manifest. The man's ship was _Mozart's Lady_, all right. Outbound from
Triton City for Mars. Well, Bartock thought, he wouldn't go to Mars.
Assuming they learned what ship he had boarded, they would be guarding
the inner orbits too closely.

He would take _Mozart's Lady_ daringly outward, beyond Neptune's orbit.
Naturally, the ship wouldn't have interstellar drive, but as yet Bartock
wasn't going interstellar. You couldn't have everything. You couldn't
expect a starship on Triton, could you? So Bartock would take _Mozart's
Lady_ outward to Pluto's orbit--and wait. From the amount of hand
luggage taken aboard, _Mozart's Lady_ would be carrying quite a number
of passengers. If that number were reduced--drastically reduced--the
food, water and air aboard would last for many months. Until the fuss
died down. Until Bartock could bring _Mozart's Lady_, long since given
up for lost, in for a landing on one of the inner planets....

Now he dragged the dead pilot's body into the complete darkness on the
south side of the pilot-barracks, wishing he could hide it better but
knowing he didn't have the time or the means.

Then he walked boldly across the tarmac, wearing a pilot's uniform,
toward _Mozart's Lady_.

Fifteen minutes later, House Bartock watched with amazement while a
hundred pretty young women boarded the ship. Of all the things that had
happened since his escape, this came closest to unnerving him, for it
was the totally unexpected. Bartock shrugged, chain-smoked three
cigarettes while the women boarded slowly, taking last-minute looks at
dark Triton, the spaceport, the cordon of guards, the arc-lights.
Bartock cursed impotently. Seconds were precious now. The pilot's body
might be found. If it were....

At last the port clanged shut and the ground-crew tromped away. Since
even an over-age ship like _Mozart's Lady_ was close to ninety percent
automatic, there was no crew. Only the pilot--who was Bartock--and the
passengers.

Bartock was about to set the controls for blastoff when he heard
footsteps clomp-clomping down the companionway. He toyed with the idea
of locking the door, then realized that would arouse suspicion.

A square woman's face over a plump middle-aged figure.

"I'm Mrs. Moriarity, pilot. I have a hundred young girls aboard. We'll
have no nonsense."

"No, sir. I mean, no ma'am."

"Well, make sure."

"Yes, ma'am."

"And I want an easy trip, without fuss or incidents. For half of our
girls it's the second time in space--the first being when they came out
here. You understand?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"What happened to the pilot who took us out?"

"Uh, pressed into service last week on a Mercury run. I'm surprised the
control board didn't tell you."

"They didn't. It doesn't matter. You do your job, and that's all."

"Yes, ma'am," House Bartock said. "Just my job."

A few moments later, _Mozart's Lady_ blasted off.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Stop! Hey, wait!" Pitchblend Hardesty bawled at the top of his voice.
But it didn't do any good. The police rushed up behind Pitchblend, not
daring to fire.

Moments before, they had found the dead pilot's body.

They knew at once what it meant, of course. They had been not more than
a minute too late.

"Call Central Control on Neptune," a police officer said. "We'll send a
cruiser after them."

"Won't do any good," Pitchblend Hardesty groaned.

"What are you talking about, fellow?"

"Unless the cruiser's brand new."

"On Neptune? Don't be silly. Newest one we've got is ten years old."

"Like I said, won't do any good. I worked that ship over, mister. I know
what she's like inside. She may look like an over-age tub on the
outside, but don't let that fool you. She's got power, mister. She's
probably the fastest thing this side of the Jovian moons, except for
those experimental one-man rocket-bombs down at Neptune Station. But
chasing a big tub in a one-man space-bound coffin--" here Pitchblend
used the vernacular for the tiny one-man experimental ships--"ain't
going to do anybody any good. Best thing you can do is track _Mozart's
Lady_ by radar and hope she'll head sunward. Then they could intercept
her closer in."

But _Mozart's Lady_ did not head sunward. Radar tracking confirmed this
moments later. _Mozart's Lady_ was outward bound for Pluto's orbit. And,
with Pluto and Neptune currently in conjunction, that could even mean a
landing, although, the police decided, that wasn't likely. There were no
settlements on Pluto. Pluto was too weird. For the strangest reason in a
solar system and a galaxy of wonders, Pluto was quite uninhabitable.
More likely, _Mozart's Lady_ would follow Pluto's orbit around, then
make a dash sunward....

The radar officer threw up his hands. "I give up," he said. "She's
heading for Pluto's orb all right. Call Neptune Station."

"Neptune Station, sir?"

"You bet. This job's too big for me. The brass will want to handle it."

Seconds later, sub-space crackled with energy as the call was put
through from Triton City to Neptune Station.

       *       *       *       *       *

Whatever else history would write about him, it would
certainly call Johnny Mayhem the strangest--and literally most
death-defying--test-pilot in history. Of course, testing the sleek
experimental beauties out of Neptune Station and elsewhere wasn't
Mayhem's chief occupation. He was, in a phrase, a trouble-shooter for
the Galactic League. Whenever he had a spare few weeks, having completed
an assignment ahead of schedule in his latest of bodies, he was likely
to turn up at some testing station or other and volunteer for work. He
was never turned down, although the Galactic League didn't approve.
Mayhem was probably the galaxy's best pilot, with incredible reflexes
and an utter indifference toward death.

For the past two weeks, having completed what turned out to be an
easier-than-expected assignment on Neptune, he had been piloting the
space-bound coffins out of Neptune Station, and with very satisfactory
experimental results.

A few minutes ago he had been called into the station director's office,
but when he entered he was surprised to see the Galactic League Firstman
of Neptune waiting for him.

"Surprised, eh?" the Firstman demanded.

"I'll bet you want me to quit test-flying," Mayhem said with a smile
which, clearer than words, told the Firstman his advice would be
rejected.

The Firstman smiled too, "Why, no, Mayhem. As a matter of fact, I want
you to take one of the coffins into deep space."

"Maybe something's wrong with my hearing," Mayhem said.

"No. You heard it right. Of course, it's up to you. Everything you do,
you volunteer."

"Let's hear it, Firstman."

So the Firstman of Neptune told Johnny Mayhem about _Mozart's Lady_
which, six hours ago, had left Triton for Pluto's orbit with an
eccentric wealthy widow, a hundred girls, and a desperate escaped
killer.

"The only thing we have out here fast enough to overtake them, Mayhem,
is the one-man coffins. The only man we have who can fly them is you.
What do you say?"

Mayhem's answer was a question, but the question didn't really require
an answer. Mayhem asked: "What are we waiting for?"

The Firstman grinned. He had expected such an answer, of course. The
whole galaxy, let alone the solar system, knew the Mayhem legend. Every
world which had an Earthman population and a Galactic League post,
however small, had a body in cold storage, waiting for Johnny Mayhem if
his services were required. But of course no one knew precisely when
Mayhem's services might be required. No one knew exactly under what
circumstances the Galactic League Council, operating from the hub of the
Galaxy, might summon Mayhem. And only a very few people, including those
at the Hub and the Galactic League Firstmen on civilized worlds and
Observers on primitive worlds, knew the precise mechanics of Mayhem's
coming.

Johnny Mayhem, a bodiless sentience. Mayhem--Johnny Marlow, then--who
had been chased from Earth, a pariah and a criminal, eight years ago,
who had been mortally wounded on a wild planet deep within the
Saggitarian Swarm, whose life had been saved--after a fashion--by the
white magic of that planet. Mayhem, doomed now to possible immortality
as a bodiless sentience, an _elan_, which could occupy and activate a
corpse if it had been frozen properly ... an _elan_ doomed to wander
eternally because it could not remain in one body for more than a month
without body and _elan_ perishing. Mayhem, who had dedicated his
strange, lonely life to the service of the Galactic League because a
normal life and normal social relations were not possible for him....

"One thing, Mayhem," the Firstman said, now, on Neptune. "How much
longer you have in that body of yours?"

"Five days. Possibly six."

"That doesn't give you much time. If you're caught out there when your
month is up--"

"I won't be. We're wasting time talking about it."

"--it would mean your death."

"Then let's get started."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Firstman stared at him levelly. "You're a brave man, Mayhem."

"Let's say I'm not afraid to die. I've been a living dead man for eight
years. Come on."

One of the so-called coffins, a tiny one-man ship barely big enough for
a prone man, food concentrates and water, was already waiting at the
station spacefield.

Ten minutes after hearing about _Mozart's Lady_, without fanfare, Mayhem
blasted off in pursuit.

       *       *       *       *       *

Maintaining top speed all the way, House Bartock brought _Mozart's Lady_
across almost two billion miles of space from Neptune's to Pluto's orbit
in three days. He was delighted with the speed. It would have taken the
average space-tub ten days to two weeks and, since as far as Bartock
knew there were nothing but average space-tubs on Neptune, that gave him
a considerable head-start.

It was Jane Cummings-First Violin who discovered Bartock's identity.
Bartock was studying the star-map at the time and considered himself
safe from discovery because he kept the control door of _Mozart's Lady_
locked. However, Jane Cummings had established something of a liaison
with the pilot outward bound from Earth and Mars, so she had been given
a spare key which she'd kept, secretly, all the time the symphony was on
Triton. Now, curious about the new pilot for the same reason that the
miners on Triton had been curious about the symphony, Jane made her way
forward, inserted her key in the lock, and pushed open the control door.

"Hello there," she said.

House Bartock whirled. The turning of a key in the lock had so unnerved
him--it was the last thing he expected--that he forgot to shut off the
star-map. Its tell-tale evidence glowed on the wall over his head.

"What do you want?" he managed to ask politely.

"Oh, just to say hello."

"You already said it."

Jane Cummings pouted. "You needn't bite my head off. What's your name?
Mine's Jane, and I play the violin. It wouldn't hurt you to be polite."

Bartock nodded, deciding that a little small talk wouldn't hurt if he
could keep the girl from becoming suspicious. That was suddenly
important. If this girl had a key to the control room, for all he knew
there could be others.

"My, you have been hurrying," Jane said. "I could tell by the
acceleration. You must be trying to break the speed records or
something. I'll bet we're almost to Earth--"

Her voice trailed off and her mouth hung open. At first Bartock didn't
know what was the matter. Then he saw where she was staring.

The star-map.

"We're not heading for Earth!" she cried.

Bartock walked toward her. "Give me that key," he said. "You're going to
have to stay here with me. Give me that key."

Jane backed away. "You--you couldn't be our pilot. If you were--"

"The key. I don't want to hurt you."

Bartock lunged. Jane turned and ran, slamming the door behind her. It
clanged, and echoed. The echo didn't stop. Bartock, on the point of
opening the door and sprinting down the companionway after her, stopped.

It wasn't the echo of metal slamming against metal. It was the radar
warning.

Either _Mozart's Lady_ was within dangerous proximity of a meteor, or a
ship was following them.

Bartock ran to the radar screen.

The pip was unmistakable. A ship was following them.

A ship as fast--or faster--than _Mozart's Lady_.

Cursing, Bartock did things with the controls. _Mozart's Lady_, already
straining, increased its speed. Acceleration flung Bartock back in the
pilot's chair. Pluto loomed dead ahead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Johnny Mayhem knew at what precise moment he had been discovered, for
suddenly the speed of _Mozart's Lady_ increased. Since this had occurred
an hour and a half after Mayhem had first got a clear pip of the bigger
ship on his radar, it meant he'd been spotted.

Prone with his hands stretched forward in the coffin-like experimental
ship, Mayhem worked the controls, exactly matching speed with _Mozart's
Lady_.

He tried to put himself in the position of the escaped convict. What
would he do? His best bet would be to swing in close around Pluto, as
close as he dared. Then, on the dark side of the planet, to change his
orbit abruptly and come loose of its gravitational field in a new
direction. It was a dangerous maneuver, but since the escaped convict
now knew for sure that the tiny ship could match the speed of _Mozart's
Lady_, it was his only hope. The danger was grave: even a first-rate
pilot would try it only as a last resort, for the gravitational pull of
Pluto might upset _Mozart's Lady_'s orbit. If that happened, the best
the convict could hope for was an emergency landing. More likely, a
death-crash would result.

Seconds later, Mayhem's thinking was confirmed. _Mozart's Lady_ executed
a sharp turn in space and disappeared behind the white bulk of Pluto.

Mayhem swore and followed.

"He's trying to kill us all!"

"He doesn't know how to pilot a ship! We're helpless, helpless!"

"Do something, Mrs. Moriarity!"

"Now girls, whatever happens, you must keep calm. We can only assume
that Jane was right about what she saw, but since none of us can pilot a
spaceship, we'll have to bide our time...."

"Bide our time!"

"We're all as good as dead!"

One of the girls began screaming.

Mrs. Moriarity slapped her. "I'm sorry, dear. I had to hit you. Your
behavior bordered on the hysterical. And if we become hysterical we are
lost, lost, do you understand?"

"Yes'm."

"Good. Then we wait and see what happens."

       *       *       *       *       *

What was happening was an attempt at what test-pilots term
planet-swinging. Moving in the direction of Pluto's orbit, _Mozart's
Lady_ swung in very close behind the planet. Then, as the rotation of
Pluto on its axis hurled it forth again, as a sling-shot hurls a pellet,
_Mozart's Lady_'s rockets would alter the expected direction of flight.
Unless a pursuing ship followed exactly the same maneuver, it would be
flung off into space at top-speed in the wrong direction. It might be
hours before the first ship's trail could be picked up again--if ever.

House Bartock, aware of all this--and one other factor--sat sweating it
out at the controls.

The one other factor was closeness to Pluto. For if you got too close,
and the difference was only a matter of miles covered in an elapsed time
of mili-seconds, Pluto might drag you into a landing orbit. If that
happened, traveling at tremendous speed, there'd be the double danger of
overheating in the planet's atmosphere and coming down too hard. Either
way the results could be fatal.

His hands sweating, Bartock struggled with the controls. Now already he
could see Pluto bulking, its night-side black and mysterious, in the
viewport. Now he could hear the faint shrill scream of its atmosphere.
Now....

Trying to time it perfectly, he slammed on full power.

A fraction of a mili-second too late.

_Mozart's Lady_ stood for an instant on its tail, shuddering as if it
were going to come apart and rain meteoric dust over Pluto's surface.
That had happened too in such a maneuver, but it didn't happen now.

Instead, _Mozart's Lady_ went into a landing orbit.

But its speed was still terrific and, lowering, it whizzed twice around
Pluto's fifteen thousand mile circumference in twenty minutes.
Atmosphere screamed, the heat siren shrilled, and a cursing House
Bartock applied the braking rockets as fast as he could.

Pluto's surface blurred in the viewport, coming closer at dizzying
speed. Bartock stood _Mozart's Lady_ on its tail a second time, this
time on purpose.

The ship shuddered, and struck Pluto.

Bartock blacked out.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Mayhem's radar screen informed him that _Mozart's Lady_ had failed
to break free of Pluto's field of gravity, Mayhem immediately went to
work. First he allowed the tiny scout-ship to complete its planet-swing
successfully, then he slowed down, turned around in deep space, and came
back, scanning Pluto with radar scopes and telescope until he located
the bigger ship. That might have taken hours or days ordinarily, but
having seen _Mozart's Lady_ go in, and having recorded its position via
radar, Mayhem had a pretty good idea as to the landing orbit it would
follow.

It took him three-quarters of an hour to locate the bigger ship. When he
finally had located it, he brought it into close-up with the more
powerful of the two telescopes aboard the scout.

_Mozart's Lady_ lay on its side in a snow-tundra. It had been damaged,
but not severely. Part of the visible side was caved in, but the ship
had not fallen apart. Still, chances were that without extensive repairs
it would not be able to leave Pluto.

There was no way, Mayhem knew, of making extensive repairs on Pluto.
_Mozart's Lady_ was there to stay.

The safe thing to do would be to inform Neptune and wait in space until
the police cruisers came for House Bartock. The alternative was to
planetfall near _Mozart's Lady_, take the convict into custody, and then
notify Neptune.

If Bartock were alone the choice would have been an easy one. But
Bartock was not alone. He had a hundred girls with him. He was
desperate. He might try anything.

Mayhem had to go down after him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The trouble was, though, that of all the worlds in the galaxy--not
merely in Sol System--Pluto was the one most dangerous to Johnny Mayhem.
He had been pursuing House Bartock for three days. Which meant he had
two days left before it was imperative that he leave his current body.
This would mean notifying the hub of the Galaxy by sub-space radio to
pull out his _elan_, but Pluto's heavyside layer was the strongest in
the solar system, so strong that sub-space radio couldn't penetrate it.

And that was not the only thing wrong with Pluto. It was, in fact, an
incredible anomaly of a world. Almost four billion miles from the sun at
its widest swing, it still was not too cold to support life. Apparently
radioactive heat in its core kept it warm. It even had an Earth-type
atmosphere, although the oxygen-content was somewhat too rich and apt to
make you giddy. And it was a slow world.

Time moved slowly on Pluto. Too slowly. When you first landed, according
to the few explorers who had attempted it, the native fauna seemed like
statues. Their movement was too slow for the eye to register. That was
lucky, for the fauna tended to be enormous and deadly. But after a
while--how long a while Mayhem didn't know--the fauna, subjectively,
seemed to speed up. The animals commenced moving slowly, then a bit
faster, then normally. That, Mayhem knew, was entirely subjective. The
animals of Pluto were not changing their rate of living: the visitor to
Pluto was slowing down to match their laggard pace.

       *       *       *       *       *

Two days, thought Mayhem. That was all he had. And, hours after he
landed, he'd start to slow down. There was absolutely no way of telling
how much time elapsed once that happened, for the only clocks that did
not go haywire on Pluto were spring-wind clocks, and there hadn't been a
spring-wind clock in the solar system for a hundred and fifty years.

Result? On Pluto Mayhem would slow down. Once he reached Pluto's normal
time rate it might take him, say, ten minutes to run--top-speed--from
point A to point B, fifteen yards apart. Subjectively, a split-second of
time would have gone by in that period.

Two days would seem like less than an hour, and Mayhem would have no way
of judging how much less.

If he didn't get off Pluto in two days he would die.

If he didn't land, House Bartock, growing desperate and trying to scare
him off or trying to keep control of the hundred girls while he made a
desperate and probably futile attempt to repair the damaged _Mozart's
Lady_, might become violent.

Mayhem called Neptune, and said: "Bartock crash-landed on Pluto,
geographical coordinates north latitude thirty-three degrees four
minutes, west longitude eighteen degrees even. I'm going down. That's
all."

He didn't wait for an answer.

He brought the space-bound coffin down a scant three miles from
_Mozart's Lady_. Here, though, the tundra of Pluto was buckled and
convoluted, so that two low jagged ranges of snow-clad hills separated
the ships.

Again Mayhem didn't wait. He went outside, took a breath of
near-freezing air, and stalked up the first range of hills. He carried a
blaster buckled to his belt.

       *       *       *       *       *

When he saw the scout-ship come down, Bartock didn't wait either. He
might have waited had he known anything about what Pluto did to the
time-sense. But he did not know. He only knew, after a quick inspection,
that the controls of _Mozart's Lady_ had been so badly damaged that
repair was impossible.

He knew too that the scout-ship had reported his whereabouts. He had, on
regaining consciousness, been in time to intercept the radio message.
True, it would take any other Neptune-stationed ship close to two weeks
to reach Pluto, so Bartock had some temporal leeway. But obviously
whoever was pursuing him in the one-man ship had not come down just to
sit and wait. He was out there in the snow somewhere. Well, Bartock
would go out too, would somehow manage to elude his pursuer, to get
behind him, reach the scout-ship and blast off in it. And, in the event
that anything went wrong, he would have a hostage.

He went arearships to select one.

Went with his desperation shackled by an iron nerve.

And a blaster in his hand.

"... very lucky," Matilda Moriarity was saying, trying to keep the
despair from her voice. "We have some cuts and bruises, but no serious
casualties. Why, we might have all been killed."

"Lucky, she says! We're marooned here. Marooned--with a killer."

Before the widow Moriarity could defend her choice of words, if she was
going to defend them, House Bartock came into the rear lounge, where the
entire symphony and its chaperone was located. They would have locked
the door, of course; they had locked it ever since they had learned who
Bartock was. But the door, buckled and broken, had been one of the
casualties of the crash-landing.

"You," Bartock said.

He meant Jane Cummings.

"Me?"

"Yes, you. We're going outside."

"Out--side?"

"That's what I said. Let's get a move on."

Jane Cummings didn't move.

The widow Moriarity came between her and Bartock. "If you must take
anyone, take me," she said bravely.

"The girl."

Still the widow Moriarity didn't move.

House Bartock balled his fist and hit her. Three of the girls caught her
as she fell. None of them tried to do anything about Bartock, who had
levelled his blaster at Jane Cummings.

Trembling, she went down the companionway with him.

A fierce cold wind blew as they opened the airlock door.

       *       *       *       *       *

It looked like a sea-serpent floundering in the snow.

Only, it was caught in the act of floundering, like an excellent candid
shot of a sea-serpent floundering in snow.

Its movements were too slow for Mayhem's eyes to register.

Which meant, he realized gratefully, that he hadn't begun to slow down
yet.

He had to be careful, though. If he were Bartock he would make
immediately for the scout-ship. It would be his only hope.

Realizing this, Mayhem had gone through deep snow for what he judged to
be fifteen minutes, until he had reached a spine of rock protruding from
the snow. Then he had doubled back, now leaving no footprints, along the
spine. He was waiting in the first low range of hills not four hundred
yards from the scout-ship, his blaster ready. When Bartock prowled into
view, Mayhem would shout a warning. If Bartock didn't heed it, Mayhem
would shoot him dead.

It seemed like an airtight plan.

And it would have been, except for two things. First, Bartock had a
hostage. And second, Pluto-time was beginning to act on Mayhem.

He realized this when he looked at the sea-serpent again. The long neck
moved with agonizing slowness, the great gray green bulk of the monster,
sixty feet long, shifted slowly, barely perceptibly, in the snow.
Mountains of powdery snow moved and settled. The spade-shaped head
pointed at Mayhem. The tongue protruded slowly, hung suspended, forked
and hideous, then slowly withdrew.

The neck moved again, ten feet long, sinuous. And faster.

Faster? Not really.

Mayhem was slowing down.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then he saw Bartock and the girl.

They were close together. Bartock held her arm. Walking toward the
scout-ship, they were too far away and too close together for Mayhem to
fire. Bartock would know this and wouldn't heed any warning.

[Illustration: Mayhem was blocked. The gun was useless.]

So Mayhem didn't give any warning. He left the spine of rock and rushed
down through the snow toward the space-bound coffin.

A low rumble of sound broke the absolute stillness.

It was the monster, and now that his own hearing had slowed down, Mayhem
was able to hear the slower cycles of sound. How much time had really
passed? He didn't know. How much time did he have left before death came
swiftly and suddenly because he had been too long in his temporary body?
He didn't know that either. He sprinted toward the scout-ship. At least
it felt like he was sprinting. He didn't know how fast he was really
moving. But the sea-serpent creature was coming up behind him, faster.
No place near what would have been its normal apparent speed, but
faster. Mayhem, his breath coming raggedly through his mouth, ran as
fast as was feasible.

So did Bartock and the girl.

It was Bartock, spotting Mayhem on the run, who fired first. Mayhem
fell prone as the raw _zing_ of energy ripped past. The
sea-serpent-like-creature behind him bellowed.

And reared.

It didn't look like a sea-serpent any longer. It looked like a dinosaur,
with huge solid rear limbs, small forelimbs, a great head with an
enormous jaw--and speed.

Now it could really move.

Subjectively, time seemed normal to Mayhem. Your only basis was
subjective: time always seemed normal. But Mayhem knew, as he got up and
ran again, that he was now moving slower than the minute hand on a
clock. Slower ... as objective time, as measured in the solar system at
large, sped by.

He tripped as the creature came behind him. The only thing he could do
was prop up an elbow in the snow and fire. Raw energy ripped off the two
tiny forelimbs, but the creature didn't falter. It rushed by Mayhem,
almost crushing him with the hind limbs, each of which must have weighed
a couple of tons. It lumbered toward Bartock and Jane Cummings.

Turning and starting to get up, Mayhem fired again.

His blaster jammed.

Then the bulk of the monster cut off his view of Bartock, the girl and
the scout-ship. He heard the girl scream. He ran toward them.

Jane Cummings had never been so close to death. She wanted to scream.
She thought all at once, hysterically, she was a little girl again. If
she screamed maybe the terrible apparition would go away. But it did not
go away. It reared up high, as high as a very tall tree, and its fangs
were hideous.

Bartock, who was also frightened, raised his blaster, fired, and missed.

Then, for an instant, Jane thought she saw someone running behind the
monster. He had a blaster too, and he lifted it. When he fired, there
was only a clicking sound. Then he fired again.

Half the monster's bulk disappeared and it collapsed in the snow.

That was when Bartock shot the other man.

Mayhem felt the stab of raw energy in his shoulder. He spun around and
fell down, his senses whirling in a vortex of pain. Dimly he was aware
of Bartock's boots crunching on the snow.

They fired simultaneously. Bartock missed.

And collapsed with a searing hole in his chest. He was dead before he
hit the snow.

The girl went to Mayhem. "Who--who are you?"

"Got to get you back to the ship. No time to talk. Hurry."

"But you can't walk like that. You're badly hurt. I'll bring help."

"... dangerous. I'll take you."

He'd take her, flirting with death. Because, for all he knew, his time
on Pluto, objectively, had already totalled forty-eight hours. If it
did, he would never live to get off Pluto. Once his thirty days were up,
he would die. Still, there might be danger from other animals between
the scout-ship and _Mozart's Lady_, and he couldn't let the girl go back
alone. It was almost ludicrous, since she had to help him to his feet.

He staggered along with her, knowing he would never make it to _Mozart's
Lady_ and back in time. But if he left her, she was probably doomed too.
He'd sacrifice his life for hers....

They went a hundred yards, Mayhem gripping the blaster and advancing by
sheer effort of will. Then he smiled, and began to laugh. Jane thought
he was hysterical with pain. But he said: "We're a pair of bright ones.
The scout-ship."

Inside, it was very small. They had to lie very close to each other, but
they made it. They reached _Mozart's Lady_.

Mayhem didn't wait to say good-bye. With what strength remained to him,
he almost flung the girl from the scout-ship. The pain in his shoulder
was very bad, but that wasn't what worried him. What worried him was the
roaring in his ears, the vertigo, the mental confusion as his _elan_
drifted, its thirty days up, toward death.

He saw the girl enter _Mozart's Lady_. He blasted off, and when the
space-bound coffin pierced Pluto's heavyside layer, he called the Hub.

The voice answered him as if it were mere miles away, and not halfway
across a galaxy: "Good Lord, man. You had us worried! You have about ten
seconds. Ten seconds more and you would have been dead."

Mayhem was too tired to care. Then he felt a wrenching pain, and all at
once his _elan_ floated, serene, peaceful, in limbo. He had been plucked
from the dying body barely in time, to fight mankind's lone battle
against the stars again, wherever he was needed ... out beyond Pluto.

Forever? It wasn't impossible.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of World Beyond Pluto, by C. H. Thames

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WORLD BEYOND PLUTO ***

***** This file should be named 32820.txt or 32820.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/2/8/2/32820/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
