The Project Gutenberg EBook of Comet's Burial, by Raymond Zinke Gallun

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Comet's Burial

Author: Raymond Zinke Gallun

Release Date: September 17, 2011 [EBook #37448]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COMET'S BURIAL ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Dianna Adair and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net










[Illustration: BRINKER BRINKER in footprints]




     _A man may be a scoundrel, a crook, a high-phased confidence man,
     and still work toward a great dream which will be worth far more
     than the momentary damage his swindles cost._




_Comet's Burial_

_by_ RAYMOND Z. GALLUN


Outside Tycho Station on the Moon, Jess Brinker showed Arne Copeland the
odd footprints made in the dust by explorers from Mars, fifty million
years ago. A man-made cover of clear plastic now kept them from being
trampled.

"Who hasn't heard about such prints?" Copeland growled laconically.
"There's no air or weather here to rub them out--even in eternity.
Thanks for showing a fresh-arrived greenhorn around..."

Copeland was nineteen, tough, willing to learn, but wary. His wide mouth
was usually sullen, his grey eyes a little narrowed in a face that
didn't have to be so grim. Back in Iowa he had a girl. Frances. But love
had to wait, for he needed the Moon the way Peary had once needed the
North Pole.

Earth needed it, too--for minerals; as an easier, jump-off point to the
planets because of its weak gravity; as a place for astronomical
observatories, unhampered by the murk of an atmosphere; as sites for
labs experimenting in forces too dangerous to be conducted on a
heavily-populated world, and for a dozen other purposes.

Young Copeland was ready for blood, sweat, and tears in his impulse to
help conquer the lunar wastes. He sized up big, swaggering Jess Brinker,
and admitted to himself that this man, who was at least ten years his
senior, could easily be a phony, stalking suckers. Yet, Copeland
reserved judgment. Like any tenderfoot anywhere, he needed an
experienced man to show him the ropes.

He already knew the Moon intimately from books: A hell of silence, some
of it beautiful: Huge ringwalls. Blazing sunlight, inky shadow. Grey
plains, black sky. Blazing stars, with the great blurry bluish globe of
Earth among them. You could yearn to be on the Moon, but you could go
bats and die there, too--or turn sour, because the place was too rough
for your guts.

Afield, you wore a spacesuit, and conversed by helmet radiophone.
Otherwise you lived in rooms and holes dug underground, and sealed up.
The scant water you dared use was roasted out of gypsum rock. The oxygen
you breathed was extracted from lunar oxides by a chemical process. Then
air-rejuvenator apparatus reseparated it from the carbon-dioxide you
exhaled, so that you could use it over and over.

Copeland had read the tales: With that kind of frugality as the price of
survival, lunar prospectors could turn selfish to the point of
queerness. Afraid somebody might follow them to their mineral claims,
they'd take more pains to leave as little spoor as possible than a fox
being tracked by dogs.

"Speaking of how footprints last around here," Copeland remarked for the
sake of conversation, "I understand you've got to be careful--stick to
high ridges, and to parts of the flat _maria_ where there's no old
volcanic ash or dust of thermal erosion."

"Guys who do that are misers and old women, kid," Brinker scoffed.
"Hell--it sure ain't because they're modest that they're so cautious!
Me--I do things right."

He lifted a foot from the dust beside the path, revealing the mark of
the specially etched steel sole of his spaceboot. A name was stamped
across the print: BRINKER.

"I'm proud of where I've been and where I'm going--like a true
explorer," the big man said. "Get some soles like mine made for
yourself, fella, and come along with me."

Copeland was intrigued. "Let me think about it a little."

             *       *       *       *       *

During the next few hours he heard quite a lot.

A big, blonde nurse--one of the two women in the sealed warrens of Tycho
Station, said: "Young man, I _love_ Jess Brinker. But keep away from
him, or you'll wind up in the prison pits, or worse."

And Copeland heard about Tom Brinker, Jess' dad--the kind of swindler
always found in rough new territory, anywhere. He had promoted the idea
of a real city on Lunar. Yeah--one with trees and flowers. What
sentimental bait that was for home-starved, desolation-sick wanderers!
No wonder somebody had murdered him recently.

By common opinion, twenty-odd years was the only difference between Jess
and his father. "Stay clear," was the warning; the name of Brinker was
mud and poison.

Arne Copeland was a cagey youngster; nobody influenced him when he made
up his mind. He was no cow-eyed hero-worshipper; yet, on his own, he
kind of liked the large, battered, egotist. Copeland knew that he
was an egotist himself. He also knew that merely to be on the
sketchily-explored Moon was to take chances.

So he said "Okay," to Brinker, and got some metal boot-soles made, with
his name etched into them in reverse, as in a rubber stamp.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under packs that no coolie could ever have lifted against Earth gravity,
they left Tycho Station and moved toward the fringe of that lunar
hemisphere which is never seen from Terra--though it is no different
from the visible half in general character.

Wherever their feet found a medium that would take an impression, they
left their trademark behind them. Copeland could brush a name out with a
glove; otherwise those names were about as permanent as if carved from
granite, for there was no wind to blow the dust, and no rain to wash it
away. Passing tractor-caravans would never blot out all of the
footprints. Not in ages of time.

"At least we got us a monument, Jess," Copeland said once, feeling
somewhat thrilled. "That's what guys out exploring and prospecting need.
A legend. A reputation."

Jess Brinker's eyes narrowed, making him look sinister. "Yeah, Cope," he
drawled. "But in my case it's a _counter_-reputation, with a little of
Robin Hood thrown in, to help blow the stink of my Old Man off me. I
want some friends and backing, so I can do what Dad really wanted to
do--though he was as much of a rogue as a saint. You listening, Cope?"

Copeland kept his face stony. "Tell me what you want to, and then stop,"
he said softly.

"Thanks," Brinker answered. "It doesn't matter too much that I can guess
who killed Pop, and would like to square things. Yeah, a hatchet-faced
ex-partner who turned pious and legal on the outside, after he got the
breaks. How old is that story, I wonder?... It doesn't even rile me
terribly, knowing that Dad wasn't all crook, knowing he _believed_ his
idea was good for everybody, and was trying to get funds to put it
across."

Brinker sighed and went on: "The idea is the _important_ thing, Cope. A
place with trees and flowers, a city, maybe--an antidote for the Moon's
desolation. Anyone here feels the need in his bones and nerves. But it
would take more air and water than could ever be imported, or drawn from
the lunar crust. You wouldn't know it on the dead surface, but two
hundred miles deep in the Moon there's still molten lava, plentiful
water in the form of steam, volcanic carbon-dioxide gas--the makings of
oxygen. There's nitrogen, too.

"How to reach that stuff is the question. Drills break under the
pressure of depth at a tenth of the distance. Pop's idea involved
Brulow's Comet, which will be coming back sunward from far space in
three years. Imagine--a comet! It could be dangerous, too; nobody could
ever get permission for an attempt."

Brinker paused again. Copeland and he were plodding through a jagged
valley. The stars were merciless pinpoints, the silence brittle and
grating.

"But there must be a way of blasting down to those life-giving
raw-materials, Cope," Brinker continued. "Maybe with atomic explosive.
Experiments call for funds and backing. So I save my money, and wish I
had a head for making it faster. And I look for weak spots in the lunar
crust with radar. And I try to get people to know I'm around, and to
like me...."

Copeland realized that what he had just heard could be a line of malarky
meant to kid a yokel, or a bid to get him involved in something. But he
found himself kind of falling for the yarn. More than ever he suspected
that folks were wrong about Jess Brinker; his warning instincts were
being lulled to sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

Month-long lunar days passed, while the two men ranged over a segment of
the hidden hemisphere. They trod plains and crater-walls unsullied by
human feet before; they took photographs to be sold to the Lunar
Topographical Commission; they located deposits of radioactive metals,
which could be registered for investigation by an assaying party, and
for possible royalties. Periodically they visited scattered supply
stations, and then set out once more.

Such a life had its poisons even for Brinker and Copeland, who were
braced for meeting the unknown and the strange.

Living in space suits for weeks at a time; smelling their own unwashed
bodies; slipping an arm out of a heavy sleeve to draw food through a
little airlock in their armor's chestplate; knowing, in spite of
effective insulation, that the heat of day exceeded the boiling point of
water, and that the cold of the protracted night, when usually they
continued their explorations with the aid of ato-lamps, hovered at the
brink of absolute zero--all those things had a harsh effect on
nervous-systems.

They found two human corpses. One had been crushed in a long fall, his
spacesuit ripped open; he was a blackened mummy. The other was a
freckled youth, coffined in his armor. Failure of its air-rejuvenator
unit had caused asphyxia. What you did for guys like this was collect
their credentials for shipment home.

Copeland also found a Martian--inside its transparent version of a
spacesuit, for the ancient Moon had been much the same as now. The being
was dead, of course. Its brain-case had been a sac; its tentacles were
like a snarl of age-hardened leather thongs.

Lying near it was an even greater rarity--the remains of a different
sort of monster from the planet that had been literally exploded
in a war with Mars, to form the countless fragments that were the
asteroids. That much of remote history was already known from the
research-expeditions that had gone out to the Red Planet, and beyond.

The queer, advanced equipment of these two beings from two small,
swift-cooling worlds--which had borne life early, and whose cultures had
rivalled briefly for dominance of the solar system until they had wiped
each other out those fifty million years ago--lay scattered near them.
It was still as bright and new as yesterday, preserved by the Moon's
vacuum: Cameras, weapons, instruments--rich loot, now, to be sold to
labs that sought to add the technology of other minds to human
knowledge.

For a year, things went well. The names, BRINKER and COPELAND,
footprinted into the lunar dust, helped build the new reputation that
Brinker wanted. Copeland and he were a hard-working team; they covered
more ground than any other Moon explorers.

The fights that Brinker got into with other toughs at the various supply
stations, and never lost, added to the legend--that old Tom's son was
savage and dangerous, but with a gentler side. For instance he once
carried a crazed Moon-tramp, whom Copeland was too slight to have
handled for a minute, fifty miles on his back to a station. Oh,
sure--the stunt could be pure ballyhoo, not charity. But Copeland knew
that more and more people had begun to admire his buddy.

Brinker never found a weak spot in the lunar crust. "It's always about
two hundred miles deep, Cope," he said. "Lots thicker than Earth's
shell, because the Moon, being smaller, cooled more. But don't worry;
nothing is impossible. Soon I'll have enough money to make minor tests.
And maybe enough friends for serious support."

Yeah--maybe it was all just a brain-bubble. But Copeland had seen enough
of desolation to grind the spirit of the Brinker idea into his
bones--even if he didn't think it was quite practical.

"I'll throw my dough in with yours, Jess," he said.

Their named bootprints helped build their fame as explorers; but there
was a flaw and an invitation here which they both must have
realized--and still faced as a calculated risk.

       *       *       *       *       *

A lunar day later, they were plodding through the Fenwick mountains on
the far hemisphere, when streams of bullets made lava chips fly.

As they flopped prone in the dust, a scratchy voice chuckled: "Hello,
Brinker. Maybe you and your pal want my bunch to escort you back to
Tycho Station. We might as well have the reward. Robbery of a minerals
caravan and three killings, they say. It's terrible how you scatter your
tracks around...."

Brinker grasped Copeland's wrist to form a sound-channel, so that they
could converse without using their radiophones. "That was Krell
talking," he said. "Dad's old partner."

Luckily, it was not many hours to sunset. The mountain ridges, slanting
up to the peaks, cast inky shadows that could hide anything. Brinker was
canny; while more bullets spurted, he led a dash back to a ridge-shadow
that went clear to the range-crest. Even with bulky packs, climbing was
a lot faster than on Earth, where things weigh six times as much.

So they got away, over the mountains. The black night of the far side of
the Moon, where Earth never shines, hid them.

"Making boot-soles with our names on them," Brinker growled bitterly,
using the radiophone at reduced range. "The crudest kind of frameup."

"Your Krell is quite a man," Copeland stated.

"He _could_ have arranged all of it--sure," Brinker answered. "He knows
I suspect that he finished Pop, so I'm dangerous to him. He might hate
me, too, as part of my Old Man--sort of ... Whatever it was he got sore
about, originally--money or principle, no doubt ... Besides, I don't
think he wants the Moon to be a little more livable. It would encourage
too many colonists to come, increase metals production, spoil prices,
cheapen his claims. He's a corny man, with all the corny reasons ...

"He, and some of his guys, could have robbed and killed and left
footprints like ours. But any other lugs, seeking someone else to blame
for their crimes, could have done all that. If that is so, Krell has got
me even _legally_--without blame to himself."

"Footprints!" Copeland snapped. "They're so obviously a frame that it's
silly; anyone could see that! Another thing--maybe Krell was kidding,
scaring us by saying that we are wanted. Tell you what, Jess: In any
case I won't seem as guilty as you; I'll go back alone to Tycho Station,
and clear us both."

"You're an optimist, ain't you?" Brinker laughed. "Krell wasn't kidding;
and in a rough place like the Moon, justice jumps to conclusions and
gets mean, fast. Sure, the purpose of the footprints is obvious. But
I've been fighting uphill against my Old Man's reputation for a long
time. Who's gonna say I haven't backslid? What I want to accomplish is
tough enough with everything in my favor."

Brinker's voice was now a sinister rumble with a quiver in it. Arne
Copeland turned wary again; he had never lost entirely the deepseated
notion that Brinker might cause him misfortune.

"So now what?" he demanded softly, flashing his ato-light beam against
Brinker's face-window, so that he could see his expression. Copeland
meant to forestall danger aggressively.

But as the darkness between them was swept aside, he also saw the muzzle
of Brinker's pistol levelled at him. The bigger man's grin was lopsided.
"I'd give you my neck, Cope," he rumbled. "But I'd give both our necks
for you-know-what. Now, because that's all there's left, I'm gonna try
it Pop's crazy way. You're gonna help. If you and I can last through a
couple of years of _real_ silence and solitude, it might have a chance.
I got a ship hidden. Give me your gun. Easy! If you think I wouldn't
shoot, you're a fool. Now I'll wire one of your wrists to mine; we've
got a long march ahead."

       *       *       *       *       *

Some march it was! Copeland was fiercely independent. The warnings about
Brinker had gone to waste; so had his own wariness. Bitterness made him
savage. The harshness of the Moon still ached in his guts--he wanted the
steam and gases of its interior tapped and used, yes--but by some
reasonable means. Jess Brinker must be truly Moon-balmy, now.
Desolation-nuts. Wild for the sight of growing things. Else how could he
think seriously of using Brulow's Comet? Was it hard to guess how?
Copeland knew that he and Brinker had courage, and willingness to work
for a sound purpose. But to trade long effort and hardship in a
proposition that courted suicide, even in its probable failure--and wide
destruction if it managed to be successful--was worse than folly.

So, when these meanings became clear in his mind, he wrestled Brinker at
every turn. Twice he almost won. He argued and cursed, getting nowhere.
He defied Brinker to shoot him. The big man didn't do that. But at last
Brinker jabbed a hypodermic needle--part of the regulation medical
kit--through the flexible rubberized fabric of the elbow-joint of
Copeland's spacesuit, and into his arm.

       *       *       *       *       *

Many hours later, and many miles farther into the mountainous country,
Copeland awoke in a cavern with glassy walls, illuminated by Brinker's
ato-light. Brinker stood near where he lay. He seemed just grimly
good-humored.

"This is an old Martian supply depot, Cope," he offered. "I found it
before I knew you, and I kept it in reserve for possible trouble, like
now. I knew I could convert its contents to considerable money at any
time. So it was like a bank-account, and a last resort, too. There's
even a small Martian spaceship; only three others have ever been found,
intact. I also cached some Earthly instruments here. You can bet I
didn't leave _any_ tracks for miles around."

Copeland's gaze caught the errie gleam of the strange little craft. He
saw the stacks of oddly-made boxes and bales. His hackles rose as he
thought of a senseless plunge into unplumbed distance.

"Unwire my hands, Jess!" he coaxed again, trying to control fury. "Get
wise! Damn you--you're more dangerous as an altruist than any crook
could be!"

Brinker's laugh was sharp, but his eyes held real apology. "Want to help
me ready and load the ship?" he said almost mildly. "No--I guess not;
you aren't quite in a cooperative frame of mind, yet. I'll need you
later. Sorry, but you're the only guy around, Cope."

Brinker blasted queer bulkheads out of the ship, in order to make it
habitable for humans. The exit of the cavern had been masked with
debris, but now he cleared it. He tossed Copeland aboard and took off
into the lunar night.

       *       *       *       *       *

The vast journey lasted for months. Once Brinker said to his sullen, and
again partially-drugged, captive: "Maybe in two years, if we're very
lucky, we'll be back."

Hurtling outward, they passed the orbits of Mars, the asteroids,
Jupiter, and Saturn. There, with Earth-made instruments, Brinker located
what he sought: Brulow's Comet.

So far from the sun, where the fluorescence-inducing radiations were
thinned almost to nothing, it glowed hardly at all. And it had almost no
tail; it was only a gigantic, tenuous ghost, with a core of stone and
magnetic iron fragments.

Still dazed, Copeland thought about comets. Wanderers, following
elongated orbits that loop tight around the sun at one end and plumb the
depths of space at the other. Of all large forms moving through the
void, they were the least dense. In coma and tail, they were only
intensely rarefied and electrified gas. The great enigma about them was
that things so deficient in mass and gravity could hold onto even that
much atmosphere for long. Perhaps new gases were baked out of the
meteoric core, each time a comet was close to the sun; maybe some of
them even renewed their atmosphere periodically, by capturing a little
of the tenuous substance of the solar corona, during their very near
approaches to it.

Brulow's Comet was on the sunward swing, now, gaining speed under solar
gravitation; but it still had a long ways to go. Brinker guided the ship
down through its coma and toward its lazily-rotating nucleus, where
thousands of fragments of iron and rock swirled around their common
center of gravity.

The chunks clattered against the craft's metal hull, but did no damage
at their low speed. Brinker brought the ship to rest at the center of
the nucleus, where there was one solid mass of material a hundred yards
in diameter.

"Well, we're here, Cope," Brinker said grimly. "We don't have to work
right away--if you don't want to. We've got too much time."

Those two years looming ahead were the worst. If the Moon had been
harsh, it was nothing to this eerie place. The heart of this small comet
was illumined by faint, shifting phosphorescence, ranging from blue and
tarnished silver to delicate if poisonous pink. Perhaps the cause was
the same as that of the terrestrial aurora. The silence here was that of
space; but the swirling motion of the nucleus suggested a continuous
maddening rustle to Copeland.

He had to yield to Brinker's wishes. Toil might divert him some, keep
him from feeling the tension of time and strangeness so much.

"Okay, Brinker," he said. "You win. Brulow's Comet is headed for a close
approach to the Earth-Moon system. So you want to be spectacular, and
shift it a little from its orbit--so that it will hit the Moon and maybe
break its crust. Was that so hard to figure? That sounds pretty big,
doesn't it? But I'll humor you. Let's see how far we get ... Since we're
here." His sarcasm was tired.

       *       *       *       *       *

As a preliminary, they cut a cavern in the central mass of the nucleus
with Martian blasters, and fitted it with a crude airlock. The cavern
would be better to live in than the interior of a ship meant for alien
beings. They moved Martian apparatus and supplies into it:
Air-rejuvenators, moisture-reclaimers, cylinders of oxygen and water,
and containers of nourishment--all millions of years old.

Their remaining supply of Earthly food in their packs was now very
short. It was weird--eating what had been preserved so long ago, on
another world, for beings just barely close enough to human for their
food to be edible. Gelatins, sectional fragments of vegetation, and what
might have been muscle-tissue. Copeland and Brinker both gagged often.
It wasn't the bland, oily taste so much, but the idea....

Some of it, Copeland decided, was not native Martian. It was more like
terrestrial fish. And slabs of coarse meat might have been flesh of the
last dinosaurs! Martians surely must have visited Earth briefly, though
evidence there had long since weathered away.

       *       *       *       *       *

While the still-distant sun sent thin light into the comet, Brinker and
Copeland removed the propulsion-tubes from the ship and welded them to
the central chunk of the nucleus. They had a number of other spare
jet-tubes. These they fastened to lesser masses.

Whenever, in the slow swirling of the nucleus, tubes pointed in the
calculated proper direction at right angles to the comet's course, they
were fired in long bursts. Thus, slowly, like a perfectly-balanced bank
vault door moved by a finger, the mass of the comet--slight by volume,
but still measuring many thousands of tons--was deflected in the
opposite direction. Astrogation-instruments showed the shift. Copeland
had expected such coarse deflection to be possible; still, it startled
him--this was the moving of a celestial body!

"Just a little--for now, Cope," Brinker said. "We'll leave the fine
aiming for later. Meanwhile we've got to pass the time, stay as well as
we can, and keep our heads on straight."

Sure--straight! If Brinker hadn't turned foolish before they had come,
they wouldn't be out here at all. In a month they were already thinning
down from malnutrition and strain. At first, thinking coldly, Copeland
was sure they'd wilt and die long before they got near the Moon.

Then, as they managed to steady themselves some by the diversions of
playing cards, and studying the intricacies of Martian equipment, he
began to fear once more that Brinker might succeed in his efforts--but
fail terribly in result.

Many times Copeland went over the same arguments, struggling to speak
calmly, and without anger: "I wonder if you realize it, Brinker--with
enough velocity one large meteor carries more energy than a fission
bomb. A whole comet would affect thousands of square miles of the lunar
surface, at least. Smash equipment, kill men. And if the comet happened
to miss the Moon and hit Earth--"

Sometimes Brinker's expression became almost fearful, as at an enormity.
But then he'd turn stubborn and grin. "There's plenty of room to avoid
hitting the Earth," he'd say. "On the Moon, astronomers will warn of the
shifted orbit of Brulow's Comet in plenty of time for everybody to get
out of danger. Most of what we've got to worry about now, is our lives,
or jail ..."

A moment later, as like as not, they'd be slamming at each other with
fists. Copeland found it hard to contain his fury for the man who had
brought him such trouble, and--without intent--was so determined to
extend it to many others.

Brinker kept winning the scraps. But Copeland's ten-year age-advantage
meant something when it came to enduring hardship and partial-starvation
over a long period. They didn't weaken equally.

This levelling of forces was one thing that Copeland waited for. Another
was that when Brulow's Comet was found to be off course, a ship might be
sent to investigate. He never mentioned it, certainly; but once Brinker
said: "I'm ready for what you're thinking, Cope. I've got weapons."

By then they spent much of their time in torpid sleep.

Another difficulty was that it was getting harder to keep one's mind
consistently on the same track. Space, tribulation, and the months, were
having their blurring effect.

Often, Copeland spent many hours in wistful reverie about his girl,
Frances, in Iowa. Sometimes he hated all people--on Earth, Moon, and
everyhere, and didn't care what happened to them. On other occasions
Brinker's basic desire to lessen the desolation of the lunar scene
looked supremely good to him--as of course it always had, in principle.
Then, briefly and perhaps madly, he was Brinker's pal, instead of
yearning to beat him to a pulp.

       *       *       *       *       *

Somehow, twenty months crept by, and the first spaceship hove
inquisitively close to Brulow's Comet. A shadow of his former self,
Brinker crept out of the cavern to man his weapons. But like a famished
beast seeking prey, Copeland followed him.

His victory, now, was almost easy. Then all he had to do was wait to be
picked up; the ship was coming nearer. Through the now much-brightened
glow of the comet, it had ceased to be a planetlike speck reflecting
sunlight; and showed its actual form.

Confusion whirled in Copeland's head; hunger gnawed in him. Yet he
looked down at Brinker--poor Brinker, beaten unconscious inside his
spacesuit. Brinker had tried to fight lifeless dreariness. Copeland,
weak of body and fogged of mind, was now close to maudlin tears.
Dreariness was the enemy--here as elsewhere. He tried to think; his
stubborn nature mixed itself with splinters of reason, and seemed to
make sense.

His twenty months of suffering out here had to be used--mean
something--didn't it? It couldn't be just a futile blank. You had to
follow a thing started through to the end, didn't you? Brinker wanted to
improve the Moon, which certainly needed that. Okay--finish the job that
had gone so far. Damn desolation everywhere! Fight it! Smash it! Sudden
rage made Copeland's thin blood pound. Dimly he realized that he was
driven by the same dreariness-disease that motivated Brinker. So what?
Who cared about smashed lunar equipment, after all. And beside
experience, prison would be paradise.

Copeland fired a Martian rocket-launcher, aiming behind the ship. He saw
the blaze of atomic fission. Jets flaming, the craft fled.

In his phones he heard a voice that he remembered: "That you, Brinker?
Trying your father's trick, eh? Idiot! You'll kill yourself, or be
executed. And now you even shoot!"

Fury at Krell clinched Copeland's decision. He did not answer him. But
when Brinker woke up he said savagely, without friendship or
forgiveness, yet with cooperation: "We're on the same side, now. Let's
aim Brulow's Comet."

Concentrating was hard, but they had their instruments and calculators.
Velocity, position, and course of both comet and Moon had to be
coordinated to make them arrive in the same place at the same moment. It
was a problem in astrogation, but a comet was not as easily directed as
a space ship. Copeland had once thought that the necessary fine guiding
couldn't be done. The jet-system they had rigged in that inconveniently
whirling nucleus was crude.

But one thing was in their favor; they had ample time. They could adjust
their course with the jets, check with instruments, and re-adjust--again
and again. Copeland found himself doing the vital part of the job; he
was better at math than Brinker.

They still had plenty of Martian food left--for what it was worth to
human insides. Perhaps unified purpose and action brightened their
outlook a little, helping their bodies. They could never work very
long--even in the almost total absence of gravity. But--at least--their
weakness wasn't increasing now.

During those last four months they drove several ships away. Earth and
Moon swelled to spheres, ahead. Brulow's Comet lengthened its tail under
increased solar light-pressure. Intensified radiation made its shifting
colors glorious.

Brinker and Copeland lined their gigantic missile up on its target as
perfectly as they could. Fifty hours before the crash was due, they
smashed most of the jets. The remaining ones they tried, feebly, to
refit into their ship, meaning thus to escape.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three Space Patrol craft showed up, and they had to man their weapons.
Copeland hated to be an outlaw; but now he could not see effort brought
to nothing. Brinker and he had survived so far, accomplishing much--far
better results than he had expected; it made him surer that their
purpose was generally sound.

More missiles were fired carefully--not to do damage, but to discourage
the intruders; the latter were held at bay for another twelve hours.
Copeland and Brinker left radio commands and threats unanswered, so it
was hard for their opponents to get a fix on their position in the
whirling nucleus.

Explosions blazed around them, but never very close. Masses of iron and
stone were shattered and half vaporized, cooling subsequently to fine
dust. The nucleus of Brulow's Comet expanded a bit under the battering
that went on within it.

At an opportune moment, Copeland and Brinker clung to one of their
jet-tubes and, gunning it very lightly, rode it from the central
core-mass of the nucleus to a lesser meteor, and hid in a cleft. A
dust-poll had concealed their change of position. And now, with so many
other large meteors around them, they would be almost impossible to
find.

They glimpsed the Patrol craft invading the heart of the comet. Men
poured forth, struggling to set up jets in the hope of still deflecting
this juggernaut from the Moon. But the comet was already much too close;
before the setting-up was half completed it had to be abandoned. Still,
the ships remained almost to the last.

Copeland wondered tensely if they'd ever go. His withered palms
perspired.

"We could still yell for help--have them take us off," Brinker suggested
when they had left. He spoke by sound-channel contact.

The Moon loomed huge and ugly ahead. Copeland gave it a scared glance,
and then laughed grimly. "Ironic, that would be," he snapped, "No--we've
got this jet to ride, and we're still at liberty."

From space, lashed to the flaming propulsion tube, they saw the crash
happen. It was a terrific spectacle. Copeland's hopes now had jagged
cracks of worry. The comet seemed to move slowly, its coma flattening
over the Moon's spaceward hemisphere. There were blinding flashes as the
chunks of its nucleus bit into the lunar crust, their energy of velocity
converting largely to heat. Then dust masked the region of impact. The
comet's tail collapsed over the Moon like a crumbling tower.

Copeland gulped. He saw that Brinker had gone limp--fainted. Weakness
was enough to cause that; but the fact of a plan carried out had a shock
in it, too.

Copeland worked the jury-rigged controls of the jet, continuing to
decelerate. At spotty intervals, under the terrible thrust of reducing
speed, he was unconscious, too.

       *       *       *       *       *

There was no such thing as picking a landing-spot. Checking velocity
soon enough, so close to the Moon, took all of the propulsion tube's
power--so he just followed the comet down. Almost at a stand-still at
last, balanced on a streamer of flame, he toppled into hot dust Feebly
he worked to unlash himself from the tube. Brinker, jolted back to
semi-consciousness, managed to do the same.

Weakened and spent, they could not even lift themselves against the
slight lunar gravity for a while.

The darkness around them was Stygian. But as more dust settled, the sky
cleared, and the normal stars of the lunar night blazed out. Their
attention was drawn in one direction inevitably.

Red-hot lava glowed there, in scattered areas over what was clearly an
extensive expanse of territory. White vaporous plumes spurted high above
the ground, and against the sides of new-formed meteor-craters, a white
layer was collecting.

Copeland staggered erect. "Frost and snow!" he stammered. "From volcanic
steam! The first frost and snow on the Moon in a billion years! We've
done it, Brinker! Brulow's Comet really did crack the thick lunar
crust...."

He heard Brinker's grunt of premature enthusiasm.

The Patrol picked them up hours later, wandering dazedly. They were
emaciated ghosts of men--almost skeletons in armor. They gave their
names, but didn't really come to their senses until the prison doctor in
Tycho Station treated them, and they had slept for a long time.

"Don't worry, fellas. Relax," he said--with fury in his eyes.

Other faces were grim.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the speedy trial in Tycho Station, sharp-featured Krell was among
many who flung accusations.

"In the impact-zone itself--an area a hundred miles across--mining
installations and machinery of tremendous value were utterly destroyed,"
he said. "But lesser damage extends to a far wider circle. Thousands of
claims have been buried in dust, till much of the far lunar hemisphere
will have to be resurveyed. Luckily, miners and explorers were warned in
time, and sought safety. But the charge of wholesale vandalism--terrible
enough--does not stand alone. These men are to be remembered as accused
robbers and murderers."

In rebuttal, Brinker's defiance was a little uncertain, as if under so
much blame, he had lost his assurance.

"Men who know the Moon know that its barrenness is poison, and not right
for people!" he growled. "I tried to change it with Brulow's Comet--when
I had no success by other means. Anyway, Copeland is blameless. I forced
him to help me."

Embitted, there was no warmth in Copeland for his older codefendant and
jinx. Still, even without Brinker's attempt to shield him, he would have
been loyal.

"During all important parts of mine and Jess Brinker's joint project,"
he told the court, "I was in full agreement with his purpose."

Their attorney accomplished one considerable victory before these angry
people. The charge of previous murders and robbery was barred; it was
admitted that footprints were easy to duplicate, and that the presence
of some bearing the names of the guilty was unlikely.

Brinker got fifty years in the mine-pits, and Copeland thirty.

"You always figured I might get you in a jam, didn't you, Cope?" Brinker
said. "I'll keep trying to fix that."

       *       *       *       *       *

Copeland found nothing to grin about, in a thirty-year sentence. It was
goodbye wandering, goodbye girls, goodbye everything. He'd get out
middle-aged, finished, and marked. He might as well stay another twenty
with Brinker--complete a sour association with him.

Copeland had another recent jolt to brood over. A bunch of old letters
from his Frances had been delivered to him. His inability to receive or
answer any of them had brought the worst result. She had married another
guy, and who could blame her?

Arne Copeland wanted to kill Brinker. Getting desolation-goofy, and
dragging him into this mess.

But from Brinker's infuriating grin, Copeland caught a hot spark of
hope, backed by reasoning.

       *       *       *       *       *

Later, sweating in the penal mine-pits near Tycho Station, Brinker and
Copeland still heard scraps of news.

Explorers moved back into the region where the comet had split the lunar
crust. The rising columns of steam and gas were perhaps unspectacular
phenomena in themselves. But there they were, ready to fill a tremendous
need. The sleepy internal fires of the Moon were unlikely to be violent.
Yet they would push vapors up to the surface here perhaps for centuries.

In balancing benefit against transient damage, was it necessary even to
mention that deeper and richer mineral deposits had been laid bare for
easy mining by the blast effect of the comet's downfall? All free
men--good or bad, and of large or small holdings--were set to gain,
Krell included. But better mines were a side-issue.

The prisoners soon heard how roofs of transparent, flexible plastic,
brought in bundles like fabric, were being reared over that smashed-up
region, to trap escaping volcanic vapors. One tentlike structure. Then
another and another.

Here was ample water from volcanic steam, and vast quantities of
carbon-dioxide from which ordinary air-rejuvenators could release
breathable oxygen. Men who had lived so long in the lunar silence and
barrenness, soon saw that these raw materials of life need not only be
used locally, but could be piped anywhere.

"Folks have caught on, Cope," Brinker said. "They were a little
desolation-balmy, too--hence on our side all the time. Now they'll feel
better about my Old Man. There'll be more than one city, I'll
bet--clusters of big, plastic air-bubbles, self-sealing against
meteor-punctures, warmed inside at night by volcanic heat. It won't
happen all at once, but it'll come. Seeds'll be planted, and houses
built. Parts of the Moon won't look the same."

Krell's death was part of the turning tide. He was found in Tycho
Station, head smashed by a boot-sole of metal; it was good that Brinker
was in prison, because his name was printed into Krell's skull.

Who did it? Neither Brinker nor Copeland cared very much. Some wronged
stooge of Krell's, no doubt. Let the forces of law figure out the
details.

       *       *       *       *       *

Things got really good for Copeland and Brinker after popular demand
forced their vindication. They were feted, honored, praised, rewarded.
All Earth knew of them, and feminine colonists arriving as part of a new
phase of the Moon's development, shined up to them as heroes.

It is not to be said that they didn't enjoy the advantages of fame.
Brinker said more than once: "Forget your Frances, Cope. Problems are
easy, these days."

The time came when Copeland growled in answer: "Sure--too easy. Having a
lot of pals after the need is gone. No--I'm not criticizing. Most folks
are swell. But I'd like to make friends and maybe find love a little
more naturally. I thought I'd stay on the Moon; now I think I'll shove
off for Mars. People are going there; whole towns are being built, I
understand. And there's plenty of room for a lunar tramp, with a
prison-record, to get lost ..."

Copeland chuckled at the end. His vagabond blood was singing. He was
also pitching a come-on at Brinker, for he'd seen him with some letters
while they were prisoners. Copeland had glimpsed the name and address of
the writer: Dorothy Wells, the big nurse that Brinker had known at Tycho
Station. She was in Marsport now.

"By gosh--I guess I'll go too, Cope!" Brinker rumbled.

Looking back, Brinker thought it sort of funny that they were pals. He
laughed.

[Illustration]


       *       *       *       *       *


  Transcriber Notes:

  This etext was produced by Science Fiction Stories 1953. Extensive
  research did not uncover any evidence that the U.S. copyright on this
  publication was renewed.

  page 62 original: Many hours later, and may miles farther changed to:
  Many hours later, and many miles farther

  page 69 no change: Embitted, there was no warmth in Copeland - retained
  Embitted





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Comet's Burial, by Raymond Zinke Gallun

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK COMET'S BURIAL ***

***** This file should be named 37448.txt or 37448.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/3/7/4/4/37448/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Dianna Adair and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
