The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Fantasy Fan September 1933, by Various

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: The Fantasy Fan September 1933
       The Fan's Own Magazine

Author: Various

Editor: Charles D. Hornig

Release Date: July 8, 2014 [EBook #46222]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FANTASY FAN SEPTEMBER 1933 ***




Produced by Greg Weeks and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net






Transcriber's Note: Minor typographical errors have been corrected
without note. Irregularities and inconsistencies in the text have
been retained as printed.

Words printed in bold are marked with tildes: ~bold~.

The cover of this ebook was created by the transcriber and is hereby
placed in the public domain.




THE FANTASY FAN

THE FANS' OWN MAGAZINE

~Editor~: Charles D. Hornig

Published                     10 cents a copy
Monthly                       $1.00 per year

137 West Grand Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey

Volume 1      September, 1933      Number 1




100 PER CENT YOURS


Every fantasy fiction magazine says: "This is YOUR magazine." Most
fans like this phrase, for it provides a very welcome personal feeling
on the part of the readers toward these magazines. The business of
these publishers is to produce a high-class brand of fantasy,
according to the wishes of the fans, many of whom claim that the
readers' letters in each issue are well worth the price of the book.
THE FANTASY FAN is for such people--those who feel a sense of
participation when they read the opinions of others on science and
weird fiction, and have their own letters published. The sole purpose
of THE FANTASY FAN is to strengthen the bond between the fans, and
advance the popularity of fantasy fiction in every way possible. We
will do our part by publishing interesting and absorbing articles by
the leading fan writers and authors of the day--many dozens of which
we now have on hand; occasionally an exceptionally good short story;
poetry; and all sorts of regular monthly departments. We will also
feature a cash prize contest every month as an incentive to you, the
fans, to show your enthusiasm. Remember one thing, YOU control THE
FANTASY FAN. You will get everything that you want within our power,
and what you do not like will be kept out of our pages. There are
several advantages you have in reading THE FANTASY FAN. Besides
choosing your articles, you can submit your own. We will gladly
consider any of your original material for publication, and if it is
accepted, you will be paid for it. Participate in our cash contests,
which, you will note, are simplicity itself. You can ask us questions
about fantasy fiction, and we will answer them free of charge in our
'Information' department. You can have your letters printed,
criticizing THE FANTASY FAN. If you want to make pen pals, let us
know, and we will list your name in our 'Penpals Wanted' column. Watch
our department, 'The Boiling Point,' in which the most radical
arguments will be carried on. Come to 'The Boiling Point' and present
your side of the controversy. Your suggestions are welcome. You are an
associate editor--flood us with letters. We have told you our part. We
can accomplish these things and make THE FANTASY FAN bigger and better
each month ONLY WITH YOUR HELP! If you have not yet subscribed, do so
now, and insure yourself of a monthly copy. There are only a limited
number printed. If you do not intend to subscribe, send us your dime
for the next issue within a week. Well, here's hoping THE FANTASY FAN
grows and grows, and someday you will be proud to say: "I was one of
the earliest readers!" Stick with us. Look for more pages, a colored
cover and illustrations in the near future.




WELL WISHES


We wish to give our sincere thanks to all those who have so kindly
written in and expressed their hope that THE FANTASY FAN will prosper.

From that supreme master of the weird and occult, Clark Ashton Smith,
we hear: "I am vastly interested to learn of your plans for THE
FANTASY FAN. I enclose dollar bill, for which please enroll me on your
roster at once. The magazine should fill a definite need.... Of
course, I shall be glad to give you any help that lies in my power.
Imaginative fiction, particularly the weird and occult, is my chief
interest. I hope that the public for it, and the publications devoted
to it, will increase in number with the lightening of the present
depression."

Allen Glasser writes: "The name you have chosen, THE FANTASY FAN,
seems far better to me than anything previously used in this line,
since it is all-inclusive and embraces the entire field of weird,
fantastic, and scientific fiction. With that title, the mag has a good
start toward success--and I certainly hope it attains it!"

From Conrad H. Ruppert we learn that; "You never get anywhere if you
don't try anything. I certainly wish you all the success in the world,
and will do my best to help."

Brief, but ever welcome, is the message from Mortimer Weisinger: "Best
of luck in your venture."

Julius Schwartz also drops a line: "With all the articles you have,
THE FANTASY FAN should get along quite well."

This column would not be complete without a good word from that
super-active fan, Forrest J. Ackerman, who says: "I'm looking forward
to every number of THE FANTASY FAN. Good luck!"

We have received many other letters on the same trend. They encourage
us, and we appreciate them. We know you feel the same way. Boost THE
FANTASY FAN to your friends.

                     *      *      *      *      *

Have you any original fan material you would like us to print?
Anything you submit will be carefully considered. All accepted
material will be paid for in copies of TFF--we hope, later, in cash.




INFORMATION


In this department each month we will answer your questions concerning
science and weird fiction. Do you want to know when and where a
certain story was first printed?--who wrote a certain story?--the date
and a list of stories of the first issue of a magazine?--a list of
your favorite author's stories?--anything at all that you would like
to know. This column may clear up many doubtful points in your mind,
and you are free to use it.




THIS MONTH'S CASH CONTEST


Each month we shall award a one dollar bill for the best answer to the
simple questions that we ask. The best answer to

"Why do you read fantasy fiction?"

will win this month. Simple, isn't it? Entries will be judged entirely
on the interest and convincing qualities. Do not go over 100 words.
All entries must be in our office by Thursday, August 17. If you would
rather have a one year subscription to THE FANTASY FAN (in the case
that you do not already subscribe) let us know. This contest is too
easy for you to pass up. You have never had an easier opportunity of
winning a dollar!




QUESTIONNAIRE


(Try to answer these questions to test your knowledge of fantasy
fiction. The answers will appear in the next issue.)

    1. What was Dr. Keller's first story?

    2. In what stories did Tom Jenkins appear?

    3. What author writes mostly of Central and South America?

    4. What story explained the fairy myth scientifically?

    5. Who wrote "Dr. Hackensaw's Secrets"?

                     *      *      *      *      *

Join the Jules Verne Prize Club, for the advancement of science
fiction, for details write to:

    Raymond A. Palmer
    4331 North 27th Street
    Milwaukee, Wisconsin




CONGLAMITORIAL


Drury D. Sharp's first story, "The Goddess of the Painted Priests," in
the April, 1929 Weird, was the only one where his first name was
spelled out.... Years ago, Weird would occasionally print the
illustration with the installment of a story that had been the cover
picture of the first installment the month before.... The last issue
of Astounding had two illustrations by Marchionni--the only issue so
honored, and a story named "The End of Time," the title of a story in
Wonder two years ago.... Speaking about reprints! Believe it or not,
the March, 1933 Amazing contained four of them! Only--these reprints
were letters which appeared in the February number.... Among the
oddities of science fiction should go down the March, 1933 Wonder
Stories. This issue was the first Wonder not to contain an installment
of a serial. The narrow band on the top of the cover, which had a
motto for Wonder since April, 1930, for the first time in its history
did not contain such but instead the name of a story in the mag....
The November, 1931 Astounding was the only issue to have a few words
in quotations on the cover. They were: "And then his skeleton
appeared!"... "Faster Than Light," by J. Harvey Haggard in the
October, 1930 Wonder Stories was announced as "Beyond the Universe" in
the previous issue.... If any person doubts that Forrest J. Ackerman
is the most active science fiction fan--let him look into the
Discussions of the April 1933 Amazing. Three of his letters appear.
Yea, verily, "An issue without Forrest's letter is incomplete" ...
more next month....




HOW TO COLLECT FANTASY FICTION

by Julius Schwartz


It is a peculiar, but nevertheless well-founded fact, that there is
something magnetic in fantastic fiction that will attract the reader
as no other type of fiction can. One of the consequences resulting
from the reading of this absorbing and fascinating type of fiction is
that the fantasy fan feels the urge to save and collect fantasy
stories, and will, indeed, go to extreme ends to make his collection
complete as possible.

But how is he to go about accumulating a good, worthy collection?

The first rule is simple: collect all the fantastic fiction that is
appearing in the current magazines. Wonder Stories, Amazing Stories
and their quarterlies, and Science Fiction are the current magazines
that specialize in the printing of science fiction, probably the most
popular type of fantastic fiction.

However, without a shadow of a doubt the foremost magazine that
specializes in fantastic fiction is Weird Tales. Its editor,
Farnsworth Wright, insists that the stories appearing there be of high
literary quality, and thus we find that many stories have copped
honorable mentions in O'Brien's list of the best stories of the year
and in the O'Henry Memorial Prize list. The range of Weird Tales
comprises every type of fantastic fiction: from the occult to science
fiction, from ghost stories to the supernatural, from voodoo thrillers
to vampire tales, from werewolf yarns to reincarnation, and from the
mystic to the physic.

Other current magazines may occasionally print fantasyarns. Keep an
eye on Argosy, Blue Book, Magic Carpet, Ten Detective Aces, Dime
Detective, Thrilling Adventures, Doc Savage, the Science Fiction
Digest, and The Fantasy Fan, and, in truth, any of the detective, air,
and adventure magazines.

(Next month Mr. Schwartz takes up the more difficult tasks in the
collecting of fantasy fiction. No collector should miss this series.)

                     *      *      *      *      *

Boost The Fantasy Fan to your pals.




FAMOUS FANTASY FANS

1--Allen Glasser


Allen Glasser has had stories published in more than a dozen different
mags--but only two of them were science fiction. Therefore, his claim
to fame in the latter field must rest mainly on his activities as a
fan.

Glasser's first effort in behalf of science fiction was the founding
of The Scienceers, a fan club, early in 1930. For his work in this
connection, he was awarded a prize by Science Wonder Quarterly.

During 1931 he began a one-man campaign for more scientifilms, having
coined that term himself. He wrote to various producers and magazines
on this subject, and he believes he really started something.

In January, 1932, he became editor of The Time Traveller, science
fiction's first fan magazine, and conducted it successfully (for
himself) during its brief career. He also founded the Fantasy Fan
Fraternity in this period.

In addition to his fan activities, he has several other items to his
credit in connection with science fiction. He won third prize in
Wonder Quarterly's Interplanetary Plot Contest, his story, "The
Martian," appearing in their Winter 1932 edition. A poem of his was
published in the Summer 1933 issue of Amazing Quarterly; and a short
story, "Across the Ages," in the August-September 1933 Amazing
Stories. He has also had two articles on science fiction in The Author
& Journalist, a prominent writers' magazine. They were "Wells Started
It," published September, 1932, and "The Wane of Science Fiction"
which appeared last June.

Despite the pessimistic title of his last named work, Glasser still
has strong faith and deep interest in science fiction--as proven by
his contributions to THE FANTASY FAN.

He may not have the beautiful vocabulary of Clark Ashton Smith, the
ironic humor of Stanton A. Coblentz, the psychology of Dr. Keller, or
the science of John W. Campbell, Jr., but it is our sincere belief
that Allen Glasser is one of science fiction's potential authors.

    (Another in this series will soon appear.)




CLUB NEWS


In this department will be discussed news of any science fiction or
weird story club and their activities. If you belong to a club devoted
to fantasy, tell us about it, and we will let the rest of the readers
know. Some may want to join your club.

For the benefit of those fans that would like to belong to a science
fiction club, but have not as yet had the opportunity to join, we wish
to make an important announcement. Allen Glasser, former editor of The
Time Traveller, had formed a club for his readers named "Fantasy Fan's
Fraternity." Because of the discontinuance of The Time Traveller, the
club became unorganized. We are happy to inform you, however, that Mr.
Glasser wishes to re-organize this association with the readers of THE
FANTASY FAN as members. There will be no dues in the new club. Every
loyal fan should join. For particulars write direct to Mr. Allen
Glasser at 1610 University Ave., New York City and we'll wager you
will never regret it.

Forrest J. Ackerman, the world's most active, science fiction fan, is
a member of the British Science Fiction Club, and he has this to say
about it:

The membership is one dollar a year. Some of the advantages received
in return are: the magazine-book service, and Book Information
Department; the general scientific information bureau, and
correspondence between BSFC members of oversea clubs. In time, a
monthly magazine of the club is hoped to be produced to be solely the
work of the members. The Society is affiliated with the International
Scientific Association of America. Professor J. Graham Kerr, J.P.,
F.R.S., Professor of Zoology in the University of Glasgow, is an
honorary Member of the Society, and Dr. C. G. Jung, because of his
distinguished contributions to the Literature of Psychology, and Hugo
Gernsback, well-known editor of Wonder Stories, both of whom have
expressed great interest in the work of the Association, have been
nominated for new Honorary Members. Officers are: J. R. Elliot, Esq.,
46, Ascot Gardens, Southall, Middlesex, England (President), and P.
Enever, Esq., "Rosemead," High Road, Hayes, Middlesex, England (Hon.
Secretary). The method to be followed in sending in an application is
as follows: in ink or type give 1. Full name; 2. Full address; 3. Age
in years and months; 4. Your hobby (if any); 5. The names of the
science fiction magazines you read; 6. Your scientific pursuits and
interests. State what subscriptions you inclose. (It is desirable,
though not necessary if you are unable to afford it, to send your
dollar for the year.) Sign at the bottom, and submit.




MY FAVORITE SCIENCE FICTION STORY

by Mortimer Weisinger


"The Second Deluge" by Garret P. Serviss has always had a hold on me.
I have re-read it so many times that the characters in this tale seem
to be real people. When Garret P. Serviss, a world famous scientist,
couples his knowledge with vivid imagination, the result is sure to be
something decidedly unique, and "The Second Deluge" was a truly
amazing tale. The colorful descriptions and gripping action of this
exciting narrative make it one that is not soon forgotten.




PENPALS WANTED


Every month in this column will appear the names of those that desire
penpals. PC after a name means via postcard. If you want to correspond
with other lovers of science and weird fiction, send us your name and
we will print it free of charge.

    Bob Tucker, P.O. Box 260,
    Bloomington, Illinois. PC




THE BOILING POINT


Only the hottest of controversies will be printed in this
column--radical arguments that will bring your blood to 'The Boiling
Point.' We start this department off by presenting one of the most
blasphemous articles it has been our pleasure to read. It is by
Forrest J. Ackerman, and he calls it

    'A Quarrel With Clark Ashton Smith'

No doubt this will be the commencement of a lively discussion between
the readers. It is the editor's intention to print the most
interesting arguments on both sides of the case. I have this to say:
it seems to me that Wonder Stories is going far afield when it takes
such a horror story as Mr. Smith's "Dweller in Martian Depths" and,
because it is laid on the Red Planet, prints it in a magazine of
scientific fiction. Frankly, I could not find one redeeming feature
about the story. Of course, everything doesn't have to have a moral.
The thrilling scientifilm, "King Kong," for instance, has no moral to
it--except, perhaps, to be careful of Fay Wray, if you are a great
prehistoric ape--but it has a point, at least: to interest. And
"Dweller in Martian Depths" didn't interest me. I don't know, maybe it
did others. But it disappointed me very greatly to find it in a stf
publication. In Weird Tales, all right. I don't like that type of
story, I wouldn't read it there. I fail to find anything worth-while
in an endless procession of ethereal lites, phantastic visions,
ultra-mundane life, exotic paradises, airy vegetation, whispering
flutes, ghastly plants, and dirge-like horrors. May the ink dry up in
the pen from which they flow! Or, at least, Mr. Smith, direct those
tales elsewhere--NOT to a stf publication, because I do like your
science fiction like "Master of the Asteroid" and "Flight into Super
Time." But 'stuff' like "The Light From Beyond"....

Well, let's hear from someone in favor.

(Make "The Boiling Point" boil you indignant fans. Don't let this guy
Ackerman get away with it. Your replies will be published in this
department. We would especially appreciate a reply from Mr. Smith
himself in defense of his stories.)

                     *      *      *      *      *

You may have the mistaken idea that "The Fantasy Fan" and the "Science
Fiction Digest" are in competition. The truth is that they are not. We
are working together, and it is our mutual opinion that TFF and SFD
each fill a separate niche in the fantasy field. Every active fan will
want both magazines. See the SFD ad in this issue. You won't want to
miss COSMOS, and the other SFD features.




SCIENCE FICTION IN ENGLISH MAGAZINES

by Bob Tucker


Of late, quite a number of English 'penny dreadfuls,' or known to
others as 'blood and thunders' are finding their way into this
country, from London.

These small magazines have very lurid covers. Almost every one of
these publications run science fiction, or what could be termed
science fiction by a very broadminded person. The plots are
scientific, even though some of the tales contain very little science.

The Wizard Magazine is running a serial named "The End of the World,"
and in the same issue, another story, "Vengeance of the Incas," tells
of the Incas overcoming their enemies with a huge Sunray, which burns
up everything in its path. Another mag by name of Boys' Magazine is
running a thriller "The 1933 Dragon Killer" and two others, "The House
of Mocking Shadows," and "Tiger Boy," which, you may guess, is on the
same plot as Tarzan, Kaspa, Tam, and Jan. Still another pub., The
Skipper, is running "The Moon Men," and is about those gentlemen
visiting the Earth, intent on its capture, as usual. One of the weird
type is in this issue; "The Ice Pirates."

A fourth mag, The Rover, is running a serial that is amazingly like a
story that was in an American mag last spring. The story is "The
Flaming Avenger," and the author has his hero do the very same thing
the American did, and copied the idea completely, even down to the
invention the hero made, and used the invention to do the same work
with, that the American did. Of course, locale, names, and situations
are different, but outside of that, the two plots are similar.
Plagiarism?

In some cases, the authors do put some good science into their
stories, although, for the most part, they write the stf stories, and
forget to explain the method of science used. Others put some science
in, but make it as brief as possible. And in no case, is the author's
name given in the magazines. Evidently they believe in playing safe,
because there ARE copyright laws in that country!




MY SCIENCE FICTION COLLECTION

by Forrest J. Ackerman


(It is well-known that Mr. Ackerman is the most active science fiction
fan. His collection is the most unique, if not the largest in the
world. You will be surprised to learn of the various things beside the
stories themselves that can be collected.)

My files of the stf publications edited by Gernsback, Bates, Dr.
Sloane, and Rose Bolton (Miracle Stories) are complete. I think that
covers in a breath the 230 copies of standard stf. magazines.

In the line of further written material I have: the Amazing Stories
booklet, "Vanguard of Venus"; Gernsback's 18 stf. booklets, and the
one Science Fiction Classic; "Guests of the Earth," the first
Fantastic Fiction Library publication; all of the Science Fiction
Library's releases; thirty-two booklets, mostly English, including
such titles as "A Round Trip to the Year 2000, The Robot Man, Invaders
from Mars," etc; the illustrated Buck Rogers book of the 25th century;
164 bound amazing stories from Argosy, Weird Tales, Popular,
Excitement, etc, with a quarter of a hundred more in the process of
being made into books--including such stories of outstanding interest
as "The Blind Spot, Men from Space, The Girl in the Golden Atom,
Return of George Washington, Snake Mother," and other tales of
considerable value and popularity; the science fiction from Science
and Invention bound from as far back as 1921, the stories being,
besides the thirty or more Dr. Hackensaw's Secrets, Ray Cummings'
"Around the Universe," and a number of short stf tales. The special
science fiction edition of this publication is also included. Copies
of the futuristic cartoon strip, Buck Rogers, and such other newspaper
stf. as the illustrated interplanetaryarn "Rocketing thru the
Universe," another called "Into the Deeps of Space," Clinton
Constantinescu's "The Martian Menace" and other miscellaneous works
finish up that part of my collection.

As for books themselves, I am not so interested in them, but do have
"The Day of the Brown Horde", "Moon Terror", "Ralph 124C 41+", "Ship
of Ishtar", "Purple Sapphire", "Conquest of Space" autographed,
"Planet of Peril" and works of Burroughs, Rockwood, etc.

(Next month Mr. Ackerman continues and tells about the more singular
sections of his collections--don't miss it.)




MY FAVORITE FANTASY STORY

by Allen Glasser


The first worthwhile work of scientific fantasy which I read was H. G.
Wells' "Time Machine." I encountered it a good many years ago, and I
have since read countless other scientales; but my affection and
esteem for "The Time Machine" has not wavered, nor do I believe I will
ever have occasion to revise my opinion of it as the finest piece of
science fiction ever written.

"The Time Machine" is outstanding as the most original of all
time-travelling stories, and also as a fictional forerunner of
Einstein's concept of the fourth dimension. But even were it not
famous on these two accounts, it would live because of its tense
drama, its superb imagination.




ABOUT AUTHORS


The two authors with the most stories to their credit are Dr. David H.
Keller and Clark Ashton Smith, with Edmond Hamilton and Seabury Quinn
about tie for third place.... "An Adventure on Eros" in the September,
1931 Wonder Stories by J. Harvey Haggard was the shortest story ever
to cop a cover, and C. Siodmak's "Eggs From Lake Tanganyika" in the
July, 1926 Amazing was the next shortest.... Out of about thirty
stories written by Robert E. Howard, two have appeared in Strange
Tales and the rest in Weird.... Five fantasy authors are Nard, Neil
R., Ralph T., T. R., and W. Knapp Jones. Keller has collaborated on
only one story; "The Time Projector" with David Lasser in Wonder....
Raymond Knight, 'Ambrose J. Weims' of the KUKU radio program wrote the
only play Amazing ever published: "Just Around the Corner" in the
July, 1928 issue.... After having several stories published, W. K.
Mashburn, Jr., changed his name to Kirk Mashburn.... Philip Francis
Nowlan's yarns in Amazing: "Armageddon, 2419, A.D." (August, 1928)
and "Airlords of Han" (March, 1929) were the forerunners of the Buck
Rogers comic strip and the radio program.... Fletcher Pratt's stories,
except for "The War of the Giants," "The Mad Destroyer," and "The
Onslaught From Rigel," are all collaborations.... Seabury Quinn has
the honor of having the longest series of stories to his credit. Jules
de Grandin, the little French detective has been a favorite of fantasy
readers for more than eight years, and has appeared in more than forty
stories.... Victor Rousseau was the only author to have more than one
story in Miracle, Science and Fantasy Stories.... "The Moon Doom" in
Wonder was written by four authors, and was surpassed by the Science
Fiction Digest's super-serial composed by seventeen authors.... More
next month....




EARTHLING SPURNS MARTIAN!

Inhabitant of Neighboring Planet

Doubts Visitor's Origin

(Special rocket dispatch to Martian News)

by Allen Glasser, Terrestrial Correspondent


SANFRAN-SISKO, Earth, Aug. 10: [delayed by meteors]--An amusing
incident occurred here today when Sahr Kastik, Martian explorer who is
touring the planets by astral projection, materialized suddenly before
one of the city's inhabitants, a young Earthling named Efjay Akkamin.

The latter did not seem greatly surprised. "Where did you come from?"
he asked calmly.

"From the world you call Mars," replied Sahr, using telepathy, of
course.

"Hooey," retorted Akkamin. "Martians are all twelve feet tall, with
big chests and at least four arms, and you look just like anybody else
here."

"But I always assume the appearance of the natives whose planets I
visit," Sahr explained. "So you see----"

"Nertz," interrupted Akkamin. "I have read too much science fiction to
be fooled by a phony Martian. So scram."

And there was nothing for Sahr to do but "scram," which is a quaint
Earth term for making one's departure hurriedly.




SEQUELS--BY POPULAR DEMAND

by Walt Z. Russjuchi


Sequels to stories are few and far between, and the reasons for
writing sequels are still fewer. Briefly there are two. The first,
because it is a time-saving device. An author wishes to write a story,
and it is simpler for him to continue the adventures of a character he
has already created and who is familiar to the magazine world than to
create a plot with a new locale and new characterizations. The second,
because the readers demand a sequel. Perhaps they have liked a
character in a story and would like to read more about him. Perhaps
the story ends unsatisfactorily or even disastrously, whereupon the
reader wants a sequel with the hero coming out on top and the ending
to be all for the best. In this article we are concerned with the
latter reason. Should we consider the stories that had sequels because
of popular demand we will have a list of some of the best stories that
have been written (in the fantastic field).

The first noteworthy fantasyarn to have a sequel was George Allan
England's famous "Darkness and Dawn," which appeared in the 1912
Cavalier. For more than a year after the publication of this serial
the editor was constantly deluged with requests for a sequel. Finally,
in 1913, it appeared, "Beyond the Great Oblivion," and then again
because of further petitions for another sequel Mr. England penned
"The After Glow," the last of the trilogy, which are so popular even
to this day.

In 1918 A. Merritt wrote a novelette for All-Story that was destined
to make science fiction history. It was the famous "The Moon Pool."
Those who read the story created a great demand for further adventures
in the strange domain of the "moon pool." Thus in 1919 Mr. Merritt
obliged with "The Conquest of the Moon Pool."

In the same magazine appeared an occult interplanetary serial by J. U.
Giesy, "Palos of the Dog-Star Pack." Readers acclaimed it one of the
best of the interplanetary stories, and two sequels, "The Mouthpiece
of Zitu" and "Jason Son of Jason" appeared to satisfy the public's
thirsting for more adventures on the Dog-Star.

(Do not miss part two of this series, which will appear next month.)




PRINTS HIS "YARNS"

Westfield Man Writes Novelette of Scientific Type

(Special to the Journal)


WESTFIELD, July 11--In order to prove to his wife that the amount of
time he spent in his laboratory was not entirely wasted and was, among
other things, of considerable value in entertaining and instructing
his three children, Henry J. Kostkos, of 253 Scotch Plains Avenue,
formed the habit of telling them stories of future science based upon
his experiments. One of these yarns, a novelette entitled "The
Meteor-Men of Plaa," appears as the feature story in the current issue
of Amazing Stories magazine.

Mr. Kostkos' stories rival the scientific prophecies of Jules Verne,
Conan-Doyle, and H. G. Wells. When told to his daughters, their eyes
opened wide with interest as he related how inhabitants of the Earth
would some day travel in huge space ships to distant planets and there
encounter strange creatures who used wonder devices beyond the range
of imagination.

To illustrate his yarns he built models of rocket ships and miniature
sets showing grotesque monsters, and performed electrical experiments
in his laboratory that often startled his children into credulity.

Engineering, science and writing are not new to Mr. Kostkos, who is a
professional engineer. He has heretofore specialized in technical
articles and papers. He is employed at Western Electric Company,
Kearny Works, where he is in charge of special reports and
publications in the equipment engineering department.

[The above article was printed in the Elizabeth Daily Journal last
month.]




THE SCIENCE FICTION ALPHABET

by Allen Glasser


    A's for Amazing, the first of its kind;
    It keeps going strong while the rest drop behind.

    B is for Burroughs, the great Edgar Rice;
    No mag gets his yarns if they don't meet his price.

    C is for Cummings, whose stuff is okay,
    Though some of his plots have grown rather gray.

    D's for Dimension--the Fourth one we mean;
    It's mighty well known, though it's never been seen.

    E is for Earthmen who wander through space,
    Calmly subduing each troublesome race.

    F is for Forrest, most famous of fans;
    The letters he's written would fill sev'ral vans.

    G is for Gilmore; the first name is Tony.
    His writing's okay, but that moniker's phony.

    H is for Hamilton, who has written a lot;
    He sure makes good use of his favorite plot.

    I's for Invaders who seek Earth to hold,
    Until they are slain by our hero so bold.

    J is for Jupiter and each Jovian moon;
    To fantasy writers they sure are a boon.

    K is for Keller, who lives in Penn State;
    He can't get a cover though his stories are great.

    L is for Luna, our own satellite;
    It's appeared in more yarns than I'm able to cite.

    M is for Mars, way up in the sky,
    Without it, we fear, science fiction would die.

    (concluded next month)




FORECASTS


In our October number we will continue our Club News; Schwartz's 'How
to Collect Fantasy Fiction;' The Boiling Point; Forrest Ackerman's
description of his collection; our 'About Authors' and 'Conglamitorial'.
Also, we will introduce that Chinescientifictionut, Hoy Ping Pong with
his satires; a new column by Allen Glasser 'In the Field of Fantasy;'
'Howls from the Ether' by the Spacehound; 'A Sad Story of the Future'
by Ackerman; other articles; a new cash contest.

But--now comes the important announcement! We will print a brand new
tale by Clark Ashton Smith in our November issue! Mr. Smith declares
that "The Kingdom of the Worm" is one of his weirdest and most
original stories. No one will want to miss this! And, to cap the
climax, his graveyard horror tale "The Ghoul" will appear in December.




TO STF COLLECTORS:


I am disposing of my entire scientifiction library, containing
complete sets of every scientifiction magazine, 1924 to 1933, and a
number of scientifiction books. In addition to Amazing Stories,
Science and Air Wonder Stories, Astounding Stories, Wonder Stories,
Amazing Quarterly, Science Wonder and Wonder Stories Quarterly, Weird
Tales, Strange Tales, the Argosy stf, The Time Traveller, Science
Fiction, and Science Fiction Digest, I offer such rarities as the
Amazing Stories Annual, the Weird Tales Anniversary Number, the two
issues of Miracle Science & Fantasy Stories, and the first print of
'The Face in the Abyss.' These magazines and books are in perfect
condition. They go to the highest bids; otherwise at original price.
Write for a complete list.

    Linus Hogenmiller
    502 N. Washington, Farmington, Missouri

                     *      *      *      *      *

COSMOS

    The stupendous interplanetary serial which
    is written by Seventeen Masters of
    Science Fiction
    runs exclusively in the
    SCIENCE FICTION DIGEST

Other features in the September SFD

"The Girl from Venus" a short story by Rae Winters.

Biographies of L. A. Eshbach & P. Wylie

"Black Lem Gulliver" by P. S. Miller

"Alicia in Blunderland" by Nihil

"Fantasy Foolery" by Charles D. Hornig

Gossip columns end other articles.

25 cents for a special 3 month subscription, or 50 cents for six
months.

    Science Fiction Digest Company
    87-36--162nd Street
    Jamaica, New York

                     *      *      *      *      *

SELLING OUT rare science fiction collection at bargain prices. Write
for list.

    Allen Glasser
    1610 University Avenue
    New York, N.Y.

                     *      *      *      *      *

SCIENTIFIC and weird fiction (books and magazines) bought, sold,
exchanged. Send want list and stamp for prices. "The Metal Giants," by
Edmond Hamilton, 10 cents postpaid.

    Swanson Book Company
    Dept. FF, Washburn, N.D.

                     *      *      *      *      *

    JOIN THE
    INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC
    ASSOCIATION

Oldest Science Correspondence Club In the World

Dues now reduced to $1.

For particulars write:

    Clifton Amsbury
    1312 Q Street
    Lincoln, Nebraska

                     *      *      *      *      *

WEIRD tales packages: Selections of strange stories from issues dating
back eight years; five for five cents! Postpaid! Think of it: The
Dunwich Horror for one cent! And others similar by Dyalhis, Colter,
Quinn, Smith, LaSpina, Leinster, Eadie, Kline, Rousseau. As many
packages as you want at five cents apiece.

    Forrest J. Ackerman
    530 Staples Ave., San Francisco, Cal.

                     *      *      *      *      *

For Sale: Back numbers of Astounding and Weird Tales. Also new stf
books, latest titles. Send stamp for list. For review on any stf film,
or non-stf, inclose 3 cent stamp and write

    "Tuckerservice"
    Box 260, Bloomington, Illinois






End of Project Gutenberg's The Fantasy Fan September 1933, by Various

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE FANTASY FAN SEPTEMBER 1933 ***

***** This file should be named 46222.txt or 46222.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/4/6/2/2/46222/

Produced by Greg Weeks and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
  www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at 809
North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887.  Email
contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the
Foundation's web site and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit:  www.gutenberg.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For forty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
