The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Highest Mountain, by Bryce Walton

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Highest Mountain

Author: Bryce Walton

Release Date: January 7, 2016 [EBook #50868]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HIGHEST MOUNTAIN ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                         THE HIGHEST MOUNTAIN

                            By BRYCE WALTON

                       Illustrated by BOB HAYES

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                   Galaxy Science Fiction June 1952.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




             First one up this tallest summit in the Solar
            System was a rotten egg ... a very rotten egg!


Bruce heard their feet on the gravel outside and got up reluctantly to
open the door for them. He'd been reading some of Byron's poems he'd
sneaked aboard the ship; after that he had been on the point of dozing
off, and now one of those strangely realistic dreams would have to be
postponed for a while. Funny, those dreams. There were faces in them of
human beings, or of ghosts, and other forms that weren't human at all,
but seemed real and alive--except that they were also just parts of a
last unconscious desire to escape death. Maybe that was it.

"'Oh that my young life were a lasting dream, my spirit not awakening
till the beam of an eternity should bring the 'morrow," Bruce said. He
smiled without feeling much of anything and added, "Thanks, Mr. Poe."

Jacobs and Anhauser stood outside. The icy wind cut through and into
Bruce, but he didn't seem to notice. Anhauser's bulk loomed even larger
in the special cold-resisting suiting. Jacobs' thin face frowned slyly
at Bruce.

"Come on in, boys, and get warm," Bruce invited.

"Hey, poet, you're still here!" Anhauser said, looking astonished.

"We thought you'd be running off somewhere," Jacobs said.

Bruce reached for the suit on its hook, started climbing into it.
"Where?" he asked. "Mars looks alike wherever you go. Where did you
think I'd be running to?"

"Any place just so it was away from here and us," Anhauser said.

"I don't have to do that. You are going away from me. That takes care
of that, doesn't it?"

"Ah, come on, get the hell out of there," Jacobs said. He pulled the
revolver from its holster and pointed it at Bruce. "We got to get some
sleep. We're starting up that mountain at five in the morning."

"I know," Bruce said. "I'll be glad to see you climb the mountain."

Outside, in the weird light of the double moons, Bruce looked up at the
gigantic overhang of the mountain. It was unbelievable. The mountain
didn't seem to belong here. He'd thought so when they'd first hit Mars
eight months back and discovered the other four rockets that had never
got back to Earth--all lying side by side under the mountain's shadow,
like little white chalk marks on a tallyboard.

They'd estimated its height at over 45,000 feet, which was a lot higher
than any mountain on Earth. Yet Mars was much older, geologically. The
entire face of the planet was smoothed into soft, undulating red hills
by erosion. And there in the middle of barren nothingness rose that one
incredible mountain. On certain nights when the stars were right, it
had seemed to Bruce as though it were pointing an accusing finger at
Earth--or a warning one.

       *       *       *       *       *

With Jacobs and Anhauser and the remainder of the crew of the ship,
_Mars V_, seven judges sat in a semi-circle and Bruce stood there in
front of them for the inquest.

In the middle of the half-moon of inquisition, with his long legs
stretched out and his hands folded on his belly, sat Captain Terrence.
His uniform was black. On his arm was the silver fist insignia of the
Conqueror Corps. Marsha Rennels sat on the extreme right and now there
was no emotion at all on her trim, neat face.

He remembered her as she had been years ago, but at the moment he
wasn't looking very hard to see anything on her face. It was too late.
They had gotten her young and it was too late.

Terrence's big, square face frowned a little. Bruce was aware suddenly
of the sound of the bleak, never-ending wind against the plastilene
shelter. He remembered the strange misty shapes that had come to him in
his dreams, the voices that had called to him, and how disappointed he
had been when he woke from them.

"This is a mere formality," Terrence finally said, "since we all know
you killed Lieutenant Doran a few hours ago. Marsha saw you kill him.
Whatever you say goes on the record, of course."

"For whom?" Bruce asked.

"What kind of question is that? For the authorities on Earth when we
get back."

"When you get back? Like the crews of those other four ships out
there?" Bruce laughed without much humor.

Terrence rubbed a palm across his lips, dropped the hand quickly again
to his belly. "You want to make a statement or not? You shot Doran in
the head with a rifle. No provocation for the attack. You've wasted
enough of my time with your damn arguments and anti-social behavior.
This is a democratic group. Everyone has his say. But you've said too
much, and done too much. Freedom doesn't allow you to go around killing
fellow crew-members!"

"Any idea that there was any democracy or freedom left died on Venus,"
Bruce said.

"Now we get another lecture!" Terrence exploded. He leaned forward.
"You're sick, Bruce. They did a bad psych job on you. They should never
have sent you on this trip. We need strength, all the strength we can
find. You don't belong here."

"I know," Bruce agreed indifferently. "I was drafted for this trip. I
told them I shouldn't be brought along. I said I didn't want any part
of it."

"Because you're afraid. You're not Conqueror material. That's why you
backed down when we all voted to climb the mountain. And what the devil
does Venus--?"

Max Drexel's freckles slipped into the creases across his high
forehead. "Haven't you heard him expounding on the injustice done to
the Venusian aborigines, Captain? If you haven't, you aren't thoroughly
educated to the crackpot idealism still infecting certain people."

"I haven't heard it," Terrence admitted. "What injustice?"

Bruce said, "I guess it couldn't really be considered an injustice
any longer. Values have changed too much. Doran and I were part of the
crew of that first ship to hit Venus, five years ago. Remember? One
of the New Era's more infamous dates. Drexel says the Venusians were
aborigines. No one ever got a chance to find out. We ran into this
village. No one knows how old it was. There were intelligent beings
there. One community left on the whole planet, maybe a few thousand
inhabitants. They made their last mistake when they came out to greet
us. Without even an attempt at communication, they were wiped out. The
village was burned and everything alive in it was destroyed."

Bruce felt the old weakness coming into his knees, the sweat beginning
to run down his face. He took a deep breath and stood there before the
cold nihilistic stares of fourteen eyes.

"No," Bruce said. "I apologize. None of you know what I'm talking
about."

Terrence nodded. "You're psycho. It's as simple as that. They pick the
most capable for these conquests. Even the flights are processes of
elimination. Eventually we get the very best, the most resilient, the
real conquering blood. You just don't pass, Bruce. Listen, what do you
think gives you the right to stand here in judgment against the laws
of the whole Solar System?"

"There are plenty on Earth who agree with me," Bruce said. "I can say
what I think now because you can't do more than kill me and you'll do
that regardless...."

He stopped. This was ridiculous, a waste of his time. And theirs. They
had established a kind of final totalitarianism since the New Era. The
psychologists, the Pavlovian Reflex boys, had done that. If you didn't
want to be reconditioned to fit into the social machine like a human
vacuum tube, you kept your mouth shut. And for many, when the mouth was
kept shut long enough, the mind pretty well forgot what it had wanted
to open the mouth for in the first place.

A minority in both segments of a world split into two factions.
Both had been warring diplomatically and sometimes physically, for
centuries, clung to old ideas of freedom, democracy, self-determinism,
individualism. To most, the words had no meaning now. It was a question
of which set of conquering heroes could conquer the most space first.
So far, only Venus had fallen. They had done a good, thorough job
there. Four ships had come to Mars and their crews had disappeared.
This was the fifth attempt--

       *       *       *       *       *

Terrence said, "why did you shoot Doran?"

"I didn't like him enough to take the nonsense he was handing me, and
when he shot the--" Bruce hesitated.

"What? When he shot what?"

Bruce felt an odd tingling in his stomach. The wind's voice seemed to
sharpen and rise to a kind of wail.

"All right, I'll tell you. I was sleeping, having a dream. Doran woke
me up. Marsha was with him. I'd forgotten about that geological job we
were supposed to be working on. I've had these dreams ever since we got
here."

"What kind of dreams?"

Someone laughed.

"Just fantastic stuff. Ask your Pavlovian there," Bruce said. "People
talk to me, and there are other things in the dreams. Voices and some
kind of shapes that aren't what you would call human at all."

Someone coughed. There was obvious embarrassment in the room.

"It's peculiar, but many faces and voices are those of crew members of
some of the ships out there, the ones that never got back to Earth."

Terrence grinned. "Ghosts, Bruce?"

"Maybe. This planet may not be a dead ball of clay. I've had a feeling
there's something real in the dreams, but I can't figure it out.
You're still interested?"

Terrence nodded and glanced to either side.

"We've seen no indication of any kind of life whatsoever," Bruce
pointed out. "Not even an insect, or any kind of plant life except some
fungi and lichen down in the crevices. That never seemed logical to me
from the start. We've covered the planet everywhere except one place--"

"The mountain," Terrence said. "You've been afraid even to talk about
scaling it."

"Not afraid," Bruce objected. "I don't see any need to climb it. Coming
to Mars, conquering space, isn't that enough? It happens that the crew
of the first ship here decided to climb the mountain, and that set a
precedent. Every ship that has come here has had to climb it. Why?
Because they had to accept the challenge. And what's happened to them?
Like you, they all had the necessary equipment to make a successful
climb, but no one's ever come back down. No contact with anything up
there.

"Captain, I'm not accepting a ridiculous challenge like that. Why
should I? I didn't come here to conquer anything, even a mountain. The
challenge of coming to Mars, of going on to where ever you guys intend
going before something bigger than you are stops you--it doesn't
interest me."

"Nothing's bigger than the destiny of Earth!" Terrence said, sitting up
straight and rigid.

"I know," Bruce said. "Anyway, I got off the track. As I was saying,
I woke up from this dream and Marsha and Doran were there. Doran was
shaking me. But I didn't seem to have gotten entirely awake; either
that or some part of the dream was real, because I looked out the
window--something was out there, looking at me. It was late, and at
first I thought it might be a shadow. But it wasn't. It was misty,
almost translucent, but I think it was something alive. I had a feeling
it was intelligent, maybe very intelligent. I could feel something in
my mind. A kind of beauty and softness and warmth. I kept looking--"

His throat was getting tight. He had difficulty talking. "Doran asked
me what I was looking at, and I told him. He laughed. But he looked.
Then I realized that maybe I wasn't still dreaming. Doran saw it, too,
or thought he did. He kept looking and finally he jumped and grabbed up
his rifle and ran outside. I yelled at him. I kept on yelling and ran
after him. 'It's intelligent, whatever it is!' I kept saying. 'How do
you know it means any harm?' But I heard Doran's rifle go off before I
could get to him. And whatever it was we saw, I didn't see it any more.
Neither did Doran. Maybe he killed it. I don't know. He had to kill it.
That's the way you think."

"What? Explain that remark."

"That's the philosophy of conquest--don't take any chances with
aliens. They might hinder our advance across the Universe. So we kill
everything. Doran acted without thinking at all. Conditioned to kill
everything that doesn't look like us. So I hit Doran and took the gun
away from him and killed him. I felt sick, crazy with rage. Maybe
that's part of it. All I know is that I thought he deserved to die and
that I had to kill him, so I did."

"Is that all, Bruce?"

"That's about all. Except that I'd like to kill all of you. And I would
if I had the chance."

"That's what I figured." Terrence turned to the psychologist, a small
wiry man who sat there constantly fingering his ear. "Stromberg, what
do you think of this gobbledegook? We know he's crazy. But what hit
him? You said his record was good up until a year ago."

Stromberg's voice was monotonous, like a voice off of a tape.
"Schizophrenia with mingled delusions of persecution. The schizophrenia
is caused by inner conflict--indecision between the older values and
our present ones which he hasn't been able to accept. A complete case
history would tell why he can't accept our present attitudes. I would
say that he has an incipient fear of personal inadequacy, which is why
he fears our desire for conquest. He's rationalized, built up a defense
which he's structured with his idealism, foundationed with Old Era
values. Retreat into the past, an escape from his own present feelings
of inadequacy. Also, he escapes into these dream fantasies."

"Yes," Terrence said. "But how does that account for Doran's action?
Doran must have seen something--"

"Doran's charts show high suggestibility under stress. Another weak
personality eliminated. Let's regard it that way. He _imagined_ he saw
something." He glanced at Marsha. "Did _you_ see anything?"

She hesitated, avoiding Bruce's eyes. "Nothing at all. There wasn't
anything out there to see, except the dust and rocks. That's all there
is to see here. We could stay a million years and never see anything
else. A shadow maybe--"

"All right," Terrence interrupted. "Now, Bruce, you know the law
regulating the treatment of serious psycho cases in space?"

"Yes. Execution."

"No facilities for handling such cases en route back to Earth."

"I understand. No apologies necessary, Captain."

Terrence shifted his position. "However, we've voted to grant you
a kind of leniency. In exchange for a little further service from
you, you can remain here on Mars after we leave. You'll be left
food-concentrates to last a long time."

"What kind of service?"

"Stay by the radio and take down what we report as we go up the
mountain."

"Why not?" Bruce said. "You aren't certain you're coming back, then?"

"We might not," Terrence admitted calmly. "Something's happened to the
others. We're going to find out what and we want it recorded. None of
us want to back down and stay here. You can take our reports as they
come in."

"I'll do that," Bruce said. "It should be interesting."

       *       *       *       *       *

Bruce watched them go, away and up and around the immediate face of
the mountain in the bleak cold of the Martian morning. He watched them
disappear behind a high ledge, tied together with plastic rope like
convicts.

He stayed by the radio. He lost track of time and didn't care much
if he did. Sometimes he took a heavy sedative and slept. The sedative
prevented the dreams. He had an idea that the dreams might be so
pleasant that he wouldn't wake up. He wanted to listen to Terrence as
long as the captain had anything to say. It was nothing but curiosity.

At fifteen thousand feet, Terrence reported only that they were
climbing.

At twenty thousand feet, Terrence said, "We're still climbing, and
that's all I can report, Bruce. It's worth coming to Mars for--to
accept a challenge like this!"

At twenty-five thousand feet, Terrence reported, "We've put on oxygen
masks. Jacobs and Drexel have developed some kind of altitude sickness
and we're taking a little time out. It's a magnificent sight up here. I
can imagine plenty of tourists coming to Mars one of these days, just
to climb this mountain! Mt. Everest is a pimple compared with this!
What a feeling of power, Bruce!"

From forty thousand feet, Terrence said, "We gauged this mountain
at forty-five thousand. But here we are at forty and there doesn't
seem to be any top. We can see up and up and the mountain keeps on
going. I don't understand how we could have made such an error in our
computations. I talked with Burton. He doesn't see how a mountain this
high could still be here when the rest of the planet has been worn so
smooth."

And then from fifty-three thousand feet, Terrence said with a voice
that seemed slightly strained: "No sign of any of the crew of the other
four ships yet. Ten in each crew, that makes fifty. Not a sign of any
of them so far, but then we seem to have a long way left to climb--"

Bruce listened and noted and took sedatives and opened cans of food
concentrates. He smoked and ate and slept. He had plenty of time. He
had only time and the dreams which he knew he could utilize later to
take care of the time.

From sixty thousand feet, Terrence reported, "I had to shoot Anhauser
a few minutes ago! He was dissenting. Hear that, Bruce? One of my most
dependable men. We took a vote. A mere formality, of course, whether
we should continue climbing or not. We knew we'd all vote to keep on
climbing. And then Anhauser dissented. He was hysterical. He refused
to accept the majority decision. 'I'm going back down!' he yelled.
So I had to shoot him. Imagine a man of his apparent caliber turning
anti-democratic like that! This mountain will be a great tester for
us in the future. We'll test everybody, find out quickly who the
weaklings are."

Bruce listened to the wind. It seemed to rise higher and higher.
Terrence, who had climbed still higher, was calling. "Think of it! What
a conquest! No man's ever done a thing like this. Like Stromberg says,
it's symbolic! We can build spaceships and reach other planets, but
that's not actual physical conquest. We feel like gods up here. We can
see what we are now. We can see how it's going to be--"

Once in a while Terrence demanded that Bruce say something to prove he
was still there taking down what Terrence said. Bruce obliged. A long
time passed, the way time does when no one cares. Bruce stopped taking
the sedatives finally. The dreams came back and became, somehow, more
real each time. He needed the companionship of the dreams.

It was very lonely sitting there without the dreams, with nothing but
Terrence's voice ranting excitedly on and on. Terrence didn't seem real
any more; certainly not as real as the dreams.

       *       *       *       *       *

The problem of where to put the line between dream and reality began to
worry Bruce. He would wake up and listen and take down what Terrence
was saying, and then go to sleep again with increasing expectancy. His
dream took on continuity. He could return to the point where he had
left it, and it was the same--allowing even for the time difference
necessitated by his periods of sleep.

He met people in the dreams, two girls and a man. They had names:
Pietro, Marlene, Helene.

Helene he had seen from the beginning, but she became more real to
him all the time, until he could talk with her. After that, he could
also talk with Marlene and Pietro, and the conversations made sense.
Consistently, they made sense.

The Martian landscape was entirely different in the dreams. Green
valleys and rivers, or actually wide canals, with odd trees trailing
their branches on the slow, peacefully gliding currents. Here and there
were pastel-colored cities and there were things drifting through them
that were alive and intelligent and soft and warm and wonderful to know.

'_... dreams, in their vivid coloring of life, as in that fleeting,
shadowy, misty strife of semblance with reality which brings to the
delirious eye more lovely things of paradise and love--and all our
own!--than young Hope in his sunniest hour hath known...._'

So sometimes he read poetry, but even that was hardly equal to the
dreams.

And then he would wake up and listen to Terrence's voice. He would
look out the window over the barren frigid land where there was nothing
but seams of worn land, like scabs under the brazen sky.

"If I had a choice," he thought, "I wouldn't ever wake up at all again.
The dreams may not be more real, but they're preferable."

Dreams were supposed to be wishful thinking, primarily, but he
couldn't live in them very long. His body would dry up and he would
die. He had to stay awake enough to put a little energy back into
himself. Of course, if he died and lost the dreams, there would be one
compensation--he would also be free of Terrence and the rest of them
who had learned that the only value in life lay in killing one's way
across the Cosmos.

But then he had a feeling Terrence's voice wouldn't be annoying him
much more anyway. The voice was unreal, coming out of some void. He
could switch off Terrence any time now, but he was still curious.

"Bruce--Bruce, you still there? Listen, we're up here at what we figure
to be five hundred thousand feet! It _is_ impossible. We keep climbing
and now we look up and we can see up and up and there the mountain is
going up and up--"

And some time later: "Bruce, Marsha's dying! We don't know what's the
matter. We can't find any reason for it. She's lying here and she keeps
laughing and calling your name. She's a woman, so that's probably it.
Women don't have real guts."

Bruce bent toward the radio. Outside the shelter, the wind whistled
softly at the door.

"Marsha," he said.

"Bruce--"

She hadn't said his name that way for a long time.

"Marsha, remember how we used to talk about human values? I remember
how you seemed to have something maybe different from the others. I
never thought you'd really buy this will to conquer, and now it doesn't
matter...."

He listened to her voice, first the crazy laughter, and then a whisper.
"Bruce, hello down there." Her voice was all mixed up with fear and
hysteria and mockery. "Bruce darling, are you lonely down there? I wish
I were with you, safe ... free ... warm. I love you. Do you hear that?
I really love you, after all. After all...."

Her voice drifted away, came back to him. "We're climbing the highest
mountain. What are you doing there, relaxing where it's peaceful and
warm and sane? You always were such a calm guy. I remember now. What
are you doing--reading poetry while we climb the mountain? What was
that, Bruce--that one about the mountain you tried to quote to me last
night before you ... I can't remember it now. Darling, what...?"

       *       *       *       *       *

He stared at the radio. He hesitated, reached out and switched on the
mike. He got through to her.

"Hello, hello, darling," he whispered. "Marsha, can you hear me?"

"Yes, yes. You down there, all warm and cozy, reading poetry, darling.
Where you can see both ways instead of just up and down, up and down."

He tried to imagine where she was now as he spoke to her, how she
looked. He thought of Earth and how it had been there, years ago, with
Marsha. Things had seemed so different then. There was something of
that hope in his voice now as he spoke to her, yet not directly to her,
as he looked out the window at the naked frigid sky and the barren
rocks.

    "'... and there is nowhere to go from the top of a mountain,
      But down, my dear;
    And the springs that flow on the floor of the valley
      Will never seem fresh or clear
    For thinking of the glitter of the mountain water
      In the feathery green of the year....'"

The wind stormed over the shelter in a burst of power, buried the sound
of his own voice.

"Marsha, are you still there?"

"What the devil's the idea, poetry at a time like this, or any time?"
Terrence demanded. "Listen, you taking this down? We haven't run into
any signs of the others. Six hundred thousand feet, Bruce! We feel our
destiny. We conquer the Solar System. And we'll go out and out, and
we'll climb the highest mountain, the highest mountain anywhere. We're
going up and up. We've voted on it. Unanimous. We go on. On to the
top, Bruce! Nothing can stop us. If it takes ten years, a hundred, a
thousand years, we'll find it. We'll find the top! Not the top of this
world--the top of _everything_. The top of the UNIVERSE!"

Later, Terrence's voice broke off in the middle of something or
other--Bruce couldn't make any sense out of it at all--and turned into
crazy yells that faded out and never came back.

Bruce figured the others might still be climbing somewhere, or maybe
they were dead. Either way it wouldn't make any difference to him. He
knew they would never come back down.

He was switching off the radio for good when he saw the coloration
break over the window. It was the same as the dream, but for an
instant, dream and reality seemed fused like two superimposed film
negatives.

He went to the window and looked out. The comfortable little city was
out there, and the canal flowing past through a pleasantly cool yet
sunny afternoon. Purple mist blanketed the knees of low hills and there
was a valley, green and rich with the trees high and full beside the
softly flowing canal water.

The filmy shapes that seemed alive, that were partly translucent,
drifted along the water's edge, and birds as delicate as colored glass
wavered down the wind.

He opened the shelter door and went out. The shelter looked the same,
but useless now. How did the shelter of that bleak world get into this
one, where the air was warm and fragrant, where there was no cold, from
that world into this one of his dreams?

The girl--Helene--was standing there leaning against a tree, smoking a
cigarette.

He walked toward her, and stopped. In the dream it had been easy, but
now he was embarrassed, in spite of the intimacy that had grown between
them. She wore the same casual slacks and sandals. Her hair was brown.
She was not particularly beautiful, but she was comfortable to look at
because she seemed so peaceful. Content, happy with what was and only
what was.

He turned quickly. The shelter was still there, and behind it the row
of spaceships--not like chalk marks on a tallyboard now, but like odd
relics that didn't belong there in the thick green grass. Five ships
instead of four.

There was his own individual shelter beyond the headquarters building,
and the other buildings. He looked up.

There was no mountain.

       *       *       *       *       *

For one shivery moment he knew fear. And then the fear went away, and
he was ashamed of what he had felt. What he had feared was gone now,
and he knew it was gone for good and he would never have to fear it
again.

"Look here, Bruce. I wondered how long it would take to get it through
that thick poetic head of yours!"

"Get what?" He began to suspect what it was all about now, but he
wasn't quite sure yet.

"Smoke?" she said.

He took one of the cigarettes and she lighted it for him and put the
lighter back into her pocket.

"It's real nice here," she said. "Isn't it?"

"I guess it's about perfect."

"It'll be easy. Staying here, I mean. We won't be going to Earth ever
again, you know."

"I didn't _know_ that, but I didn't _think_ we ever would again."

"We wouldn't want to anyway, would we, Bruce?"

"No."

He kept on looking at the place where the mountain had been. Or maybe
it still was; he couldn't make up his mind yet. Which was and which was
not? That barren icy world without life, or this?

"'_Is all that we see or seem_,'" he whispered, half to himself, "'_but
a dream within a dream?_'"

She laughed softly. "Poe was ahead of his time," she said. "You still
don't get it, do you? You don't know what's been happening?"

"Maybe I don't."

She shrugged, and looked in the direction of the ships. "Poor guys. I
can't feel much hatred toward them now. The Martians give you a lot of
understanding of the human mind--after they've accepted you, and after
you've lived with them awhile. But the mountain climbers--we can see
now--it's just luck, chance, we weren't like them. A deviant is a child
of chance."

"Yes," Bruce said. "There's a lot of people like us on Earth, but
they'll never get the chance--the chance we seem to have here, to live
decently...."

"You're beginning to see now which was the dream," she said and
smiled. "But don't be pessimistic. Those people on Earth will get their
chance, too, one of these fine days. The Conquerors aren't getting far.
Venus, and then Mars, and Mars is where they stop. They'll keep coming
here and climbing the mountain and finally there won't be any more. It
won't take so long."

She rose to her toes and waved and yelled. Bruce saw Pietro and Marlene
walking hand in hand up the other side of the canal. They waved back
and called and then pushed off into the water in a small boat, and
drifted away and out of sight around a gentle turn.

She took his arm and they walked along the canal toward where the
mountain had been, or still was--he didn't know.

A quarter of a mile beyond the canal, he saw the high mound of red,
naked hill, corroded and ugly, rising up like a scar of the surrounding
green.

She wasn't smiling now. There were shadows on her face as the pressure
on his arm stopped him.

"I was on the first ship and Marlene on the second. None like us on the
third, and on the fourth ship was Pietro. All the others had to climb
the mountain--" She stopped talking for a moment, and then he felt the
pressure of her fingers on his arm. "I'm very glad you came on the
fifth," she whispered. "Are you glad now?"

"I'm very glad," he said.

"The Martians tested us," she explained. "They're masters of the mind.
I guess they've been grinding along through the evolutionary mill
a darn long time, longer than we could estimate now. They learned
the horror we're capable of from the first ship--the Conquerors,
the climbers. The Martians knew more like them would come and go on
into space, killing, destroying for no other reason than their own
sickness. Being masters of the mind, the Martians are also capable
of hypnosis--no, that's not really the word, only the closest our
language comes to naming it. Suggestion so deep and strong that it
seems real to one human or a million or a billion; there's no limit to
the number that can be influenced. What the people who came off those
ships saw wasn't real. It was partly what the Martians wanted them to
see and feel--but most of it, like the desire to climb the mountain,
was as much a part of the Conquerors' own psychic drive as it was the
suggestion of the Martians."

She waved her arm slowly to describe a peak. "The Martians made the
mountain real. So real that it could be seen from space, measured by
instruments ... even photographed and chipped for rock samples. But
you'll see how that was done, Bruce, and realize that this and not the
mountain of the Conquerors is the reality of Mars. This is the Mars no
Conqueror will ever see."

       *       *       *       *       *

They walked toward the ugly red mound that jutted above the green. When
they came close enough, he saw the bodies lying there ... the remains,
actually, of what had once been bodies. He felt too sickened to go on
walking.

"It may seem cruel now," she said, "but the Martians realized that
there is no cure for the will to conquer. There is no safety from it,
either, as the people of Earth and Venus discovered, unless it is
given an impossible obstacle to overcome. So the Martians provided the
Conquerors with a mountain. They themselves wanted to climb. They had
to."

He was hardly listening as he walked away from Helene toward the eroded
hills. The crew members of the first four ships were skeletons tied
together with imperishably strong rope about their waists. Far beyond
them were those from _Mars V_, too freshly dead to have decayed
much ... Anhauser with his rope cut, a bullet in his head; Jacobs and
Marsha and the others ... Terrence much past them all. He had managed
to climb higher than anyone else and he lay with his arms stretched
out, his fingers still clutching at rock outcroppings.

The trail they left wound over the ground, chipped in places for holds,
red elsewhere with blood from torn hands. Terrence was more than twelve
miles from the ship--horizontally.

Bruce lifted Marsha and carried her back over the rocky dust, into the
fresh fragrance of the high grass, and across it to the shade and peace
beside the canal.

He put her down. She looked peaceful enough, more peaceful than that
other time, years ago, when the two of them seemed to have shared so
much, when the future had not yet destroyed her. He saw the shadow of
Helene bend across Marsha's face against the background of the silently
flowing water of the cool, green canal.

"You loved her?"

"Once," Bruce said. "She might have been sane. They got her when she
was young. Too young to fight. But she would have, I think, if she'd
been older when they got her."

He sat looking down at Marsha's face, and then at the water with the
leaves floating down it.

"'... And the springs that flow on the floor of the valley will never
seem fresh or clear for thinking of the glitter of the mountain water
in the feathery green of the year....'"

He stood up, walked back with Helene along the canal toward the calm
city. He didn't look back.

"They've all been dead quite a while," Bruce said wonderingly. "Yet
I seemed to be hearing from Terrence until only a short time ago.
Are--are the climbers still climbing--somewhere, Helene?"

"Who knows?" Helene answered softly. "Maybe. I doubt if even the
Martians have the answer to that."

They entered the city.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Highest Mountain, by Bryce Walton

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE HIGHEST MOUNTAIN ***

***** This file should be named 50868.txt or 50868.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/0/8/6/50868/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
