The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Nostalgia Gene, by Roy Hutchins

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Nostalgia Gene

Author: Roy Hutchins

Release Date: January 21, 2016 [EBook #50989]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NOSTALGIA GENE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          The Nostalgia Gene

                            By ROY HUTCHINS

                        Illustrated by COUGHLIN

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Galaxy Science Fiction November 1954.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




        If you cannot get the "good old days" out of your mind,
        there is only one person to blame--Edgar's grandmother!


Folks who knew Edgar Evans said he was a strange young man. Certainly
he was the darling of the old ladies and the despair of the young.
The sternest fathers positively beamed when Edgar called for their
daughters, but fellows his own age declared in the authoritative tones
of youth that Edgar was a square.

Handsome enough he was. The real reason for all the fuss was Edgar's
manners. The trouble was that he had them.

For Edgar had been orphaned at four by an Oklahoma tornado and raised
by his Hoosier grandmother, a dear old lady whose hand had once been
kissed by a passing Barrymore. The result was Edgar's manners. He
realized, of course, that one didn't kiss a lady's hand these days, but
such was Edgar's gracious way that women always got the impression he
was about to.

One parent, in something of a trance after encountering Edgar, summed
up the reaction.

"That kid," he told his wife dazedly, "akshully called me 'sir.' Them
other punks come aroun' afta Milly, they call me 'Mac.' Too bad that
there Edgar was born fifty years too late."

Before very long, Edgar came to the same conclusion.

       *       *       *       *       *

He knew a good many young men, but none he could call friend. The bop
talk which fascinated them seemed to him a repulsive travesty upon
English, just as their favorite music sounded like the braying of asses
in agony.

Many girls were willing enough when Edgar asked for a first date, but
an amazing number of them developed ill health when he suggested a
second evening of classical records or good conversation.

The girls themselves could not be blamed if they mistook his courtly
approach for a new dreamy line. Alas, the very hearts which fluttered
at his old-world chivalry grew icy when no pass was made. A girl wants
to _know_ her charms are appreciated.

So Edgar sank more deeply into himself. He recalled his grandmother's
stories about life and living back near the end of the century, when
folks knew how to be pleasant and kind.

Even at his job--he was a technician in an electronic lab--Edgar
couldn't stop longing for that era when existence had been more gentle,
simple and leisurely. His social life virtually ceased.

"Man, you ain't livin'," said one of the technicians he worked with.
"We're gonna buzz a few dives tonight. Why not drag it along with us?"

Edgar blanched. "Thank you just the same, but I--I have some work to
do."

After a while, naturally, they stopped asking.

He continued to dream hopelessly, miserably, but one day he was
yanked out of it by--of all people--a military man. The brass were
on inspection tour and the lab's Chief Engineer was apologizing for
a faulty run of synchros which had occurred some time ago, when the
Brigadier snorted.

"What's past is finished. I'm interested in five years from now!"

Edgar found himself staring fixedly at a top secret gadget still in the
breadboard stage.

"Great heaven!" he thought. "I have a fixation. This isn't doing me any
good."

But what would? Suppose, instead of dreaming, he spent time actually
working toward what he wanted most?

Here in the lab, he helped to build amazing machines, things which
daily did the impossible. He no longer marveled at what could be done
with electronics and, more important, he knew the methods and the
details.

That was when Edgar decided to build a time machine.

It was two months before he touched a transformer or a capacitor and
during that period he did nothing but try to answer the question, _What
is time?_ How could he overcome it or change its flow or whatever had
to be done?

He read everything he could find on the subject from Dr. Cagliostro to
Dr. Einstein without gaining much insight. Many a midnight, when his
neck muscles ached from trying to hold up his throbbing head, he caught
himself dreaming of grandmother's wonderful stories. And every time he
forced himself furiously back to the books, but he couldn't stop the
nostalgia entirely. It was in him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Eventually, Edgar came to think of time as an infinite series through
which the Universe was constantly expanding. Something like a set of
stop-motion photos taken microseconds apart, each complete, the changes
becoming apparent only when they are viewed in sequence. He was wrong,
of course, but that was unimportant.

Time must therefore be a function of human motion and consciousness,
Edgar reasoned, and that _was_ important.

"That's it!" he exclaimed, and then apologized gracefully to the
elderly gentleman glaring across the library table.

Now that he knew what his time machine must do, he could begin
building, adapting circuits, experimenting. Obviously, consciousness
could move forward through the series only; hence, consciousness must
be completely suspended, as in death, to move back in time.

It required some heartbreaking months for Edgar to learn that brain
waves couldn't be stopped, but that the simple trick of introducing
random electrical noise suspended all the brain functions.

"Fudge!" cursed Edgar, thinking of the wasted time.

Only a man filled with the longing which obsessed Edgar could have
found the aching perseverance and brain-wrenching ingenuity the job
needed. Only a man driven by a terrible master that rode in his glands.

But four months later, he stood with his hand on a switch, sweating
with nervous excitement as he eyed the spot from which a live rabbit
had just disappeared. The rabbit was on the table, but he was there an
hour ago and Edgar was here now, so the table appeared empty.

He pressed another switch and there was the bunny, wriggling its soft
nose in perplexity, but perfectly healthy. Edgar's own trip, of course,
would be strictly one way since the machine stayed in the present.
He could be brought back only if he stepped into its field on a date
for which the machine was set and he had absolutely no intention of
venturing near this vicinity again, once his aim was accomplished.

He thought about arranging a small explosive charge to blow the
equipment to what he thought of as The Hot Place. It seemed to him,
however, that there was some kind of law against that sort of thing.
Besides, even if the machine should come to the attention of the
authorities, who would know what it was? He could devise a mechanical
scrambler to change all the control settings once he was gone, and it
was unlikely that anyone could operate it again.

Most likely the landlady would simply sell it for junk, especially if
he left owing her a week's rent. The idea hurt his conscience.

"I know!" he exclaimed to himself. "I'll buy a bank check and arrange
to have the bank mail it to her a month after I've left!"

He felt much better about that.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three weeks later, Edgar Evans was the newest boarder at Mrs.
Peterson's, on Elm Avenue in Greencastle, Indiana. He had arrived on
April 3, 1893, the day after Easter, and already he was being referred
to as "that nice young man staying at Emma's."

Edgar snuggled into the life of the '90s like a showgirl into mink. He
went to work as a clerk in Cloud's Emporium and was soon regarded as
logical choice for the next manager. Anxious mamas filled his evenings
with dinner invitations and "at homes" and he had a dazzling choice of
partners for the numerous socials.

Edgar waltzed his partners with zest and propriety, contributed a
determined tenor at parlor sings, and sampled dozens of cakes and pies
baked by maidens bent on winning his heart via the traditional route.
And always he had a gracious compliment, an appropriate phrase for
every situation.

Within a month, the entire feminine population of Greencastle was his
for the asking, though he'd never have recognized nor admitted the
fact. The men sought his company, too, and even asked his advice on how
to win their girls back from him. Edgar, almost sick with happiness,
told them, of course.

On the eleventh of November, he was sick with something else. He went
to bed with a fever right after getting home from the Emporium, Mrs.
Peterson hovering helplessly with offers of hot broth or tea. But Edgar
felt hot and dry and his side hurt when he breathed.

"I don't want anything ... thank you," he gasped politely.

By the next noon, when the alarmed Emma Peterson had Dr. Ward in, Edgar
was barely conscious. Dr. Ward frowned, ordered hot water bottles and
gave Edgar a huge dose of hot whiskey with lemon.

"Penicillin, please," whispered Edgar painfully. "Or sulfa. It's
pneumonia, isn't it?"

"Poor fellow's delirious," said the doctor to Mrs. Peterson.

Edgar realized dimly that he had made a blunder, but that no one would
know. Then the fever took over and he blanked out.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Ward claimed ever afterward that clean living was what pulled
Edgar through--the fact that he wasn't conditioned to liquor gave the
medicinal whiskey virgin ground to work in.

All Edgar knew was that he came to and found himself so weak that he
could scarcely speak. Mrs. Peterson and her daughter, Marta, bustled
in and out to care for him. He hadn't paid particular attention to
Marta before, but in the days of lying helpless and being literally
spoon-fed, he began to know her very well.

Marta was a plain girl, he had thought, but he had never seen her
private smile before. Marta was rather dumpy, he had thought, but he
had never watched her bend to pick something up or twist to reach
for a medicine bottle. Her dresses, he discovered, were deliberately
all wrong for her--Mrs. Peterson had no intention of disturbing her
boarders unnecessarily.

In the shocking intimacy of his bedroom, Edgar was increasingly
disturbed. Marta was unfailingly cheerful, eager to wait on him. Every
half-hour, he heard her step in the hall.

"Hello!" Marta would say, sweeping lightly to his bedside. "How's our
patient now? Feeling better? Oh, dear, do let me just straighten that
sheet. It's all wrinkled. Would you like some milk or some fruit?"

"Not right now, thank you--perhaps a little later," Edgar would reply,
fixing his gaze determinedly on the window or the ceiling while she
bent over his bed, disturbingly rounded and disastrously close.

And as Edgar's recovery progressed, Mrs. Peterson dropped more and more
into the background. On the day Dr. Ward said he might try sitting up
for a while, it was Marta who stood by for the experiment.

Edgar started nobly, made about a foot of arc by himself and faltered.
Instantly, it seemed, Marta's arm was around his shoulders and a firm,
warm projection cushioned his cheek.

He very nearly collapsed, but she sat him up.

Three days later, he held her hand for a moment and, though she
blushed, she didn't draw it away in a hurry.

After a proper interval, their engagement was announced. Half the
maidens in Greencastle wept in the privacy of their pillows that night.

       *       *       *       *       *

Edgar had had a serious problem and solved it. He had found the right
girl and married her. This should be the end of his story and it would
be, except for two things--Edgar's gene and the date of his birth.

Edgar's gene came from his grandmother via his father. The stories that
gentle old lady told her orphaned grandson were the only outlet she
had for her own powerful urge to turn back the times. And there had
always been someone in the family who bemoaned the passing of the good
old days, so strongly and constantly as to bore others to the verge of
violence.

Back even a few decades, no carrier of the nostalgia gene had any
outlet but conversation and dreams. Edgar, though, was born to an age
where science provided the knowledge and the equipment for him to find
the practical solution.

If Edgar's gene had carried any other trait, red hair, placidity or
hemophilia, for instance, or if it had been recessive instead of
dominant, this might have been a very different world. But the result
was inevitable from the moment of Edgar's birth and the chain of events
that proved it was as flawless as the steps of Gauss's theorem.

He prospered after he and Marta were married. In three short years, he
was made manager of Cloud's Emporium and just before that, Marta had
surprised him with a daughter--surprised him because he was certain of
a son. He wasn't inclined to be stubborn about it, however, and when
the child put a pudgy little hand up to his cheek in a gesture that was
probably caused by reflex or gas pains, he was completely won.

When little Emma reached three, she was incurably addicted to bedtime
stories, though only those concerning knights in armor and their
ladies fair. Edgar grew to hate the names of Arthur and Galahad, but
if he tried to tell a different story, his daughter had her own way
of stopping him. Rearing back in his arms, she merely shrieked, "Ting
Arfur, Ting Arfur!" until she turned blue, at which point Edgar always
gave in.

There was no doubt that little Emma had inherited the gene.

       *       *       *       *       *

In 1906, old Cloud made Edgar a full partner in the Emporium and just
eleven years later, little Emma wrote home from New York City with the
shocking news that she was engaged to a doughboy from Brooklyn.

Edgar and Marta rushed East to unmask the scoundrel, praying they would
be in time to save Emma's honor.

The scoundrel, when unmasked, was a mechanic with weak eyes and a
passion for poetry, who was completely miserable in the infantry. His
manners were acceptable and he had enough intelligence to let Edgar
beat him thoroughly at cribbage, whereupon Edgar offered to finance the
opening of a garage in Greencastle if the young folks would move back
there when Jim's hitch in the Army was finished.

"Emma is all we have," said Edgar in his classic style. "It's
quite lonesome back home for Mother and me since she's been in the
city. We--well, we should like to know that you and, later on, our
grandchildren will be settling in a home near us."

Emma blushed and Jim tried to dig the toe of his boot into a crack
between the floorboards.

"Besides," added Edgar, becoming aware of Marta's look, "Greencastle
is a fine town and right up with the times. I think a garage will do a
fine business there."

Jim was inclined to be reluctant, but Emma gave him a side-wise kick
and said of course they'd come home and settle. She gave Edgar a big
hug and a kiss and he beamed on everybody for the rest of the evening.

A few months later, Jim's weak eyes caused him to pass a colonel
without saluting and, within days, he had a medical discharge. Emma and
the garage were waiting in Greencastle, so Jim took the first train.

In '19 and in '21, Emma produced grandsons, delighting everyone and
especially Edgar. Emma herself was thoroughly puzzled when the boys
reached the age for bedtime stories; she discovered that they were not
particularly interested in tales of bold knights and fair ladies. She
would have been happy to recite the legends of Arthur every night, but
the boys, it seemed, preferred even poor poetry to a good, stirring
joust.

Edgar privately decided that Jim's poetry gene had proved more
dominant than his own, which was perhaps just as well.

Though not interested in making a fortune, Edgar nevertheless did well
financially, using his knowledge of the '20s as an investment guide.
Jim's garage prospered and he opened another, while his father-in-law
multiplied his spare cash in the stock market. In July of 1929, Edgar
suddenly retrenched for both of them, went bearish and arranged to sell
short a number of important shares. The entire family protested that he
was losing his mind, but Edgar was firm. By November first, they were
amazed, horrified and rich.

The following year, Emma gave Jim the daughter he had wanted. And,
within three years, it was apparent to Edgar that tiny Susan carried
the gene. From the first time Grandpa experimentally told her a story
of the '90s, she wanted no others. Her mother found this also rather
difficult to understand, but at least the '90s were in the past, which
was better than poetry.

       *       *       *       *       *

On a day in 1935, Edgar found himself pondering with a fierce
intentness he had not used since 1959, when he built the time machine.
Today, August fifth, was his 66th birthday--but it was also the day he
was born.

It was impossible _not_ to wonder. Forty-two years ago (or twenty-four
from now), he had not bothered to think about possible consequences, so
strong and simple had been his urge to go back. But today--would he,
the father of one and grandfather of three, be wiped out the instant
Edgar Evans was born? Or would no baby of that name be born in the tiny
Oklahoma town?

He had been born in the morning and when this particular morning passed
like any other, Edgar felt considerably better. _Cogito, ergo sum_, he
thought. "I think, therefore I am--a comforting philosophy. But what
about the baby?"

So Edgar, nervous but understandably curious, sent a discreetly worded
wire and learned before long that he had indeed been born on schedule.
The more he thought about it, the less reason he could see why it
should be otherwise. A baby born in another part of the country had
been given the same name as his. There was certainly no traceable
relationship. And nearly everyone has a namesake somewhere.

Not wishing to be institutionalized, Edgar had never hinted to anyone,
not even Marta, the secret of his past. He had invented a convenient
and plausible history, but used it only when necessary, and then
sparingly. But now he was thinking of his granddaughter, Susan.

Susan carried the gene. At five, she insisted on dressing her dolls in
the costumes of forty years ago. She would be 29 and thoroughly unhappy
by the time the young Edgar perfected and used his time machine.

So Edgar wrote a letter, sealed it and gave it to his lawyers with
instructions that it was to be given to Susan on a certain date in
1959, provided she was still unmarried.

Edgar passed away three years later with a well-bred smile on his face,
befitting the first man who ever cheated time. His last statement,
phrased as considerately as ever, was the hope that he wasn't causing
trouble by dying.

       *       *       *       *       *

Susan, his granddaughter, grew into a pleasingly plump young woman in
an age where the ideal seemed to be total emaciation. She was not only
single but disillusioned and despairing when the lawyers looked her up
and gave her Edgar's letter.

A good part of what Edgar had written sounded like confused mysticism,
warnings about upsetting the future and the like, but his instructions
were specific enough and she read them as if they were the lost book of
_Revelations_.

By the next day, she had flown from San Francisco to New York and
gained entry to young Edgar Evans' room by telling his landlady she
was a distant relative. She disconnected the scrambler from the time
machine and reset the controls to put herself back in 1891. In her
haste, she forgot some of Edgar's instructions, with the result that
she landed not fittingly costumed, but bare as a bacchante, in the room
of a handsome young man from Louisiana.

The young man, whose name was Hare, was too startled to be anything
but a Southern gentleman at the time. In less than a month, however,
he took her back to Baton Rouge for inspection by his family and, that
ordeal successfully weathered, Susan found herself with a husband.

There is no need to follow all of Susan's life, which was happy, sad,
unique and filled with minor tragedies and triumphs, like any other
life. But Susan had four sons and gave the gene to each of them, and
their children received it in turn. Before she had thought it necessary
to pass the secret of the machine to Edgar's great-great-grandchildren,
Susan died, so the machine was not available to them.

Not that it mattered--knowledge was available, for young Andover Hare
had studied electronics at M. I. T. In 1962, he built his own time
machine, which was a considerable improvement over Edgar's, since it
could select place as well as time. Andover contacted his brothers,
sisters and cousins, helped them make their arrangements and passed
them through to the times they selected. Being a considerate man, he
allowed several relatives by marriage to go along on this mass temporal
migration.

They did not restrict themselves to the '90s. Some went back to the
1700s, two to the Italian Renaissance, and one adventurous cousin clear
to the Second Crusade. Andover himself decided he would like to know
Shakespeare and Ben Jonson. He was the last one through the machine
and he left a small, efficient detonator connected to it. Andover had
Edgar's gene, but not his compunctions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yes, we owe a lot to Edgar Evans. When Edgar was a grave and unchubby
one-year-old, pulling himself up on the furniture, _Gone With the
Wind_ hit the populace right in the middle of their worries, vague
fears and faintly stirring desires to get out of their increasingly
complex world. The year was 1936, a year that also saw a period piece
movie that was one of the first in the inevitable deluge--_The Great
Ziegfeld_ drew, as customers, many of the bearers of Edgar's gene,
enough to make a profit-conscious Hollywood see mint-green.

The year neighbors searched the wreckage of Edgar's home to pull
him from under the body of his mother, hunched in a last protective
gesture, was the year that saw American history searched frantically
for movie material. It was '39 and _Dodge City_ and _Union Pacific_
helped thousands of Edgar's descendants forget momentarily the distant
rumble of war. Historical novels were also helping to glamorize the
past.

By the time Edgar had graduated from school, been rejected by
the Army and worked for a time, the cold war was well advanced.
Three generations were mind-sick with tensions and fears and
doubts--heart-sick with the impossible wish to roll back the years to
times of peaceful, neighborly, unfrenzied human living.

Edgar did.

And the next time, in 1959, Susan went back. For most of us, 1959 came
only once, the year of the crisis when the missiles had already been
launched from both sides before the astonishing "thieves' agreement"
was reached and the missiles were aimed into the sea.

There could be nothing but relief for a few months after that,
but then the play on nerves began again, the tensions began their
unbearable rise.

In 1962, Susan's grandchildren were funneled like sacks of coal through
Andover Hare's machine. There were eighteen of them and a group of
their descendants built another machine later the same year. The
following March, another group disappeared--a much larger one this
time. They spread the gene so widely that most of us bear it today.

It was inevitable that we carry the seed of that desperate desire to
escape our own troubled times. And the urge makes living under this
doubly grinding pressure more anguished every day.

How many times this week have _you_ read or heard a piece of news and
wondered how much longer before the final, fatal mushrooms flare? How
many times has a video show, a movie, or even just a snapshot brought
the swift wish that you could be back there? How many times have the
"good old days" crept into your conversation, your thoughts?

       *       *       *       *       *

As this account began with Edgar Evans, so it shall end with Benjamin
Reeves. Not yet, but soon--it _must_ be soon now.

Like all truly wise men, Benjamin Reeves is a modest man. He's tall,
stooped a little, and his limbs are attached in that special loose way
that makes a man amble rather than walk, sprawl rather than sit. At
50-odd, he looks much more like a friendly janitor than a respected
research engineer.

And the gene is particularly dominant in Benjamin.

For eighteen years, he labored in the military vineyard, like so many
other scientists, designing computers and control systems for the
engineering section of a huge company, and finally heading up a study
group in the Dream Department. He liked that job. The dream boys were
the ones who sat around and thought about entirely new ways of doing
things. Compared to designing, it was like the difference between the
creative excitement of composing music and the drudgery of arranging it.

But even while working on deadly machines for the future, Benjamin
couldn't stop dreaming about the past, any more than Edgar Evans had.

Then, after eighteen years, Benjamin was fired. The military had asked
for a new study on the question of how many enemy missiles might get
through the early warning and intercept rings and reach the cities.
"What, specifically, can we do to protect our people?"

When the study was finished, a huge brassbound conference was staged at
the lab and everybody was expectant.

"We have a single recommendation," said Benjamin calmly, and they were
quiet, for Benjamin and his group were the big brains. "At the earliest
warning, tell everybody to run like hell!"

So the lab fired him, though the public statement read that he was
"resigning to pursue independent research."

Benjamin was shocked at first, and hurt, but dinner and party
invitations came as often as ever from his old associates, and their
wives went right on with that ancient game of trying to find the
"right" girl for the bachelor friend. He would never mention it, of
course, but the girls nowadays seemed too direct and aggressive for
him. They lacked that womanly modesty or engaging demureness that girls
reportedly had once possessed. He wished--

       *       *       *       *       *

Offers came in from other companies, but Benjamin had money enough for
a while and he began experimenting with some ideas. When his lawyer and
banker discovered he'd given away two new color TV circuits, however,
there was a blow-up and Benjamin found himself incorporated.

It made no difference. He could still experiment as he pleased. He had
his many friends and constantly made more. If enough money rolled in
to make him moderately wealthy, let the lawyer worry about it. After
he came up with the Ben Reeves capacitor in 1961, his wealth was more
than moderate. That thumb-sized gadget delivered the power of a hundred
storage batteries and was the answer to a thousand engineering problems.

All down the bad years, Benjamin had read the papers and wondered and
suffered through the tensions of the nerve war like the rest of us.
Perhaps it was a little worse for him, because he knew the classified
secrets, knew to the decimal point the percentage of missiles that
would get through our defenses. Steadily the urge grew stronger to get
out of this world gone suicidally awry.

He had the money and he had the time. An efficient business manager
took care of the new plant that produced the Ben Reeves capacitor.

He built his first machine in 1962, a month before Andover Hare took
his own near relatives back into time with him. But that wasn't enough
for Benjamin. He was a scientist where Andover was a student and Edgar
Evans an amateur experimenter. Benjamin couldn't forget the millions
who yearned with him.

For Benjamin, the mere machine wasn't an answer. He went back through
the years himself, several times, but always he returned and worked
harder. And there came the day, a year ago, when his work shifted
suddenly to maps and population indices.

If you live within 40 miles of the most populous cities, you should
know that somewhere in that city is a very plain suitcase which is at
once an answer to your prayers and to those strange nostalgic desires
you've felt. It may be in a rented room or a storage warehouse, or in
the attic of one of the many friends Benjamin Reeves has made.

Wherever it is, you're under its influence, thanks to Benjamin's work.
And every other day now, in a closed-off room at the Ben Reeves plant,
technicians finish assembling another group of strange circuits which
goes into another plain suitcase to be sent to yet another city, chosen
on the basis of population vs. importance as a target.

The technicians are learning speed. Be thankful for that, if you love
your fellow-man as Benjamin does. At first they turned out only one
machine a week; soon it will be one a day, then two, four.

Benjamin doesn't go out any more. He's always within hearing of the
receiver tuned to the warning networks, within reach of the red button
that will someday send out a coded signal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Did you read about the situation in this morning's papers? It looks
like another crisis in the making and maybe this time neither side will
back down.

Pray for a year's time, if you're the praying kind.

But whenever the missiles come, Benjamin will press the red button at
the first warning. The temporal field lasts only a millisecond and the
missiles won't be stopped, of course--but every city with a suitcase
will be empty when they strike.

If the crisis holds off for a year, Benjamin figures we'll all go
back together, each city and town to a different time, but all before
1900. It's hard to wait even a year when you have the gene gnawing and
nagging inside you....

Edgar Evans, who started it, couldn't wait. Andover Hare refused to go
back alone. Benjamin Reeves, with the same gene, was unable to forget
what he told the military--run like hell!--and all the folks like us
who couldn't.

So Benjamin found us the ultimate way to run, and to satisfy our dream
in the running. Not yet, but soon now.

_See you back there!_





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Nostalgia Gene, by Roy Hutchins

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NOSTALGIA GENE ***

***** This file should be named 50989.txt or 50989.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/0/9/8/50989/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
