The Project Gutenberg EBook of A Stone and a Spear, by Raymond F. Jones

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: A Stone and a Spear

Author: Raymond F. Jones

Release Date: January 29, 2016 [EBook #51075]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A STONE AND A SPEAR ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          A Stone and a Spear

                          BY RAYMOND F. JONES

                       Illustrated by JOHN BUNCH

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Galaxy Science Fiction December 1950.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




    Given: The future is probabilities merging into one certainty.
        Proposition: Can the probabilities be made improbables
               so that the certainty becomes impossible?


From Frederick to Baltimore, the rolling Maryland countryside lay under
a fresh blanket of green. Wholly unaware of the summer glory, Dr.
Curtis Johnson drove swiftly on the undulating highway, stirring clouds
of dust and dried grasses.

Beside him, his wife, Louise, held her blowing hair away from her face
and laughed into the warm air. "Dr. Dell isn't going to run away.
Besides, you said we could call this a weekend vacation as well as a
business trip."

Curt glanced at the speedometer and eased the pressure on the pedal. He
grinned. "Wool-gathering again."

"What about?"

"I was just wondering who said it first--one of the fellows at Detrick,
or that lieutenant at Bikini, or--"

"Said _what_? What are you talking about?"

"That crack about the weapons after the next war. He--whoever it
was--said there may be some doubt about what the weapons of the next
war will be like, but there is absolutely no doubt about the weapons of
World War IV. It will be fought with stones and spears. I guess any one
of us could have said it."

Louise's smile grew tight and thin. "Don't any of you ever think of
anything but the next war--_any_ of you?"

"How can we? We're fighting it right now."

"You make it sound so hopeless."

"That's what Dell said in the days just before he quit. He said we
didn't _have_ to stay at Detrick producing the toxins and aerosols that
will destroy millions of lives. But he never showed us how we could
quit--and be sure of staying alive. His own walking out was no more
than a futile gesture."

"I just can't understand him, Curt. I think he's right in a way, but
what brought _him_ to that viewpoint?"

"Hard to tell," Curt said, unconsciously speeding up again. "After
the war, when the atomic scientists were publicly examining their
consciences, Dell told them to examine their own guts first. That
was typical of him then, but soon after, he swung just as strongly
pacifist and walked out of Detrick."

"It still seems strange that he abandoned his whole career. The world's
foremost biochemist giving up the laboratory for a _truck farm_!"
Louise glanced down at the lunch basket between them. In it were
tomatoes that Dr. Hamon Dell had sent along with his invitation to
visit him.

       *       *       *       *       *

For nearly a year Dr. Dell had been sending packages of choice fruit
and vegetables to his former colleagues, not only at the biological
warfare center at Camp Detrick but at the universities and other
research centers throughout the country.

"I wish we knew exactly why he asked us to come out," said Louise.

"Nobody claims to have figured him out. They laugh a little at him now.
They eat his gifts willingly enough, but consider him slightly off his
rocker. He still has all his biological talents, though. I've never
seen or tasted vegetables like the ones he grows."

"And the brass at Detrick doesn't think he's gone soft in the head,
either," she added much too innocently. "So they ordered you to take
advantage of his invitation and try to persuade him to come back."

Curt turned his head so sharply that Louise laughed.

"No, I didn't read any secret, hush-hush papers," she said. "But it's
pretty obvious, isn't it, the way you rushed right over to General
Hansen after you got the invitation?"

"It _is_ hush-hush, top-secret stuff," said Curt, his eyes once more on
the road. "The Army doesn't want it to leak, but they need Dell, need
him badly. Anyone knowing bio-war developments would understand. They
wanted to send me before. Dell's invitation was the break we needed.
I may be the one with sufficient influence to bring him back. I hope
so. But keep it under your permanent and forget your guessing games.
There's more to it than you know."

The car passed through a cool, wooded section and Louise leaned back
and drank in the beauty of it.

"Hush-hush, top secret stuff," she said. "Grown men playing children's
games."

"Pretty deadly games for children, darling."

       *       *       *       *       *

In the late afternoon they by-passed the central part of Baltimore and
headed north beyond the suburb of Towson toward Dell's truck farm.

His sign was visible for a half mile:

    YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT
        Eat the Best
    EAT DELL'S VEGETABLES

"Dr. Hamon Dell, world's foremost biochemist--and truck farmer," Curt
muttered as he swung the car off the highway.

Louise stepped out when the tires ceased crunching on the gravel lane.
She scanned the fields and old woods beyond the ancient but preserved
farmhouse. "It's so unearthly."

Curt followed. The song of birds, which had been so noticeable before,
seemed strangely muted. The land itself was an alien, faintly greenish
hue, a color repulsive to more than just the eyes.

"It must be something in this particular soil," said Curt, "something
that gives it that color and produces such wonderful crops. I'll have
to remember to ask Dell about it."

"You want Dr. Dell?"

They whirled at the sound of an unfamiliar voice. Louise uttered a
startled cry.

The gaunt figure behind them coughed asthmatically and pointed with an
arm that seemed composed only of bones and brownish skin, so thin as to
be almost translucent.

"Yes," said Curt shakenly. "We're friends of his."

"Dell's in back. I'll tell him you're here."

The figure shambled away and Louise shook herself as if to rid her mind
of the vision. "If our grandchildren ever ask about zombies, I can
tell them. Who in the world do you suppose he is?"

"Hired man, I suppose. Sounds as if he should be in a lung sanitarium.
Funny that Dell would keep him around in that condition."

From somewhere behind the house came the sound of a truck engine. Curt
took Louise's arm and led her around the trim, graveled path.

The old farmhouse had been very carefully renovated. Everywhere was
evidence of exquisite care, yet the cumulative atmosphere remained
uninviting, almost oppressive. Curt told himself it was the utter
silence, made even more tense by the lonely chugging of the engine in
back, and the incredible harsh color of the soil beneath their feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rounding the corner, they came in sight of a massive tank truck. From
it a hose led to an underground storage tank and pulsed slowly under
the force of the liquid gushing through it. No one was in sight.

"What could that be for?" asked Louise.

"You've got me. Could be gasoline, but Dell hasn't any reason for
storing that much here."

They advanced slowly and amazement crept over Curt as he comprehended
the massiveness of the machine. The tank was of elliptical cross
section, over ten feet on its major axis. Six double wheels supported
the rear; even the front ones were double. In spite of such wide weight
distribution, the tires were pressing down the utterly dry ground to a
depth of an inch or more.

"They must haul liquid lead in that thing," said Curt.

"It's getting cool. I wish Dell would show up." Louise glanced out
over the twenty-acre expanse of truck farm. Thick rows of robust
plants covered the area. Tomatoes, carrots, beets, lettuce, and other
vegetables--a hundred or so fruit trees were at the far end. Between
them ran the road over which the massive truck had apparently entered
the farm from the rear.

A heavy step sounded abruptly and Dell's shaggy head appeared from
around the end of the truck. His face lighted with pleasure.

"Curt, my boy! And Louise! I thought you weren't going to show up at
all."

Curt's hand was almost lost in Dell's enormous grip, but it wasn't
because of that that his grip was passive. It was his shocked reaction
to Dell's haggard appearance. The fierce eyes looked merely old and
tired now. The ageless, leathery hide of Dell's face seemed to have
collapsed before some overpowering decay, its bronze smoothness
shattered by deep lines that were like tool marks of pain.

Curt spoke in a subdued voice. "It's hard to get away from Detrick.
Always one more experiment to try--"

"--And the brass riding you as if they expected you to win another war
for them tomorrow afternoon," said Dell. "I remember."

"We wondered about this truck," Louise commented brightly, trying to
change the subject. "We finally gave up on it."

"Oh, that. It brings liquid fertilizer to pump into my irrigation
water, that's all. No mystery. Let's go on to the house. After you're
settled we can catch up on everything and I'll tell you about the
things I'm doing here."

"Who's the man we saw?" asked Curt. "He looks as if his health is
pretty precarious."

"That's Brown. He came with the place--farmed it for years for my uncle
before I inherited it. He could grow a garden on a granite slab. In
spite of appearances, he's well enough physically."

"How has your own health been? You have--changed--since you were at
Detrick."

Dell raised a lock of steel-gray hair in his fingers and dismissed the
question with a wan smile. "We all wear out sometime," he said. "My
turn had to come."

       *       *       *       *       *

Inside, some of the oppressiveness vanished as the evening passed. It
was cool enough for lighting the fireplace, and they settled before it
after dinner. While they watched the flickering light that whipped the
beamed ceiling, Dell entertained them with stories of his neighbors,
whose histories he knew clear back to Revolutionary times.

Early, however, Louise excused herself. She knew they would want
privacy to thresh out the purposes behind Dell's invitation--and Curt's
acceptance.

When she was gone, there was a moment's silence. The logs crackled with
shocking pistol shots in the fireplace. The scientist moved to stir the
coals and then turned abruptly to Curt.

"When are you going to leave Detrick?"

"When are _you_ coming back?" Curt demanded instead of answering.

"So they still want me, even after the things I said when I left."

"You're needed badly. When I told Hansen I was coming down, he said it
would be worth five years of my own work to bring you back."

"They want me to produce even deadlier toxins than those I gave them,"
Dell said viciously. "They want some that can kill ten million people
in four minutes instead of only one million--"

"Any man would go insane if he looked at it that way. It would be the
same as gun-makers being tormented by the vision of torn men destroyed
by their bullets, the sorrowing families--"

"And why shouldn't the gun-makers be tormented?" Dell's voice was
low with controlled hate. "They are men like you and me who give the
_war_-makers new tools for their trade."

"Oh, Dell, it's not as simple as that." Curt raised a hand and let it
fall wearily. They had been over this so many times before. "Weapon
designers are no more responsible than any other agents of society.
It's pure neurosis to absorb the whole guilt of wars yet unfought
merely because you happened to have developed a potential weapon."

Dell touched the massive dome of his skull. "Here within this brain of
mine has been conceived a thing which will probably destroy a billion
human lives in the coming years. D. triconus toxin in a suitable
aerosol requires only a countable number of molecules in the lungs of
a man to kill him. My brain and mine alone is responsible for that
vicious, murderous discovery."

"Egotism! Any scientist's work is built upon the pyramid of past
knowledge."

       *       *       *       *       *

"The weapon I have described exists. If I had not created it, it would
not exist. It is as simple as that. No one shares my guilt and my
responsibility. And what more do they want of me now? What greater
dream of mass slaughter and destruction have they dreamed?"

"They want you," said Curt quietly, "because they believe we are not
the only ones possessing the toxin. They need you to come back and help
find the antitoxin for D. triconus."

Dell shook his head. "That's a blind hope. The action of D. triconus is
like a match set to a powder train. The instant its molecules contact
protoplasm, they start a chain reaction that rips apart the cell
structure. It spreads like fire from one cell to the next, and nothing
can stop it once it's started operating within a given organism."

"But doesn't this sense of guilt--unwarranted as it is--make you _want_
to find an antitoxin?"

"Suppose I succeeded? I would have canceled the weapon of an enemy.
The military would know he could nullify ours in time. Then they would
command me to work out still another toxin. It's a vicious and insane
circle, which must be broken somewhere. The purpose of the entire
remainder of my life is to break it."

"When you are fighting for your life and the enemy already has his
hands about your throat," Curt argued, "you reach for the biggest rock
you can get your hands on and beat his brains in. You don't try to
persuade him that killing is unethical."

For an instant it seemed to Curt that a flicker of humor touched the
corners of Dell's mouth. Then the lines tightened down again.

"Exactly," he said. "You reach for a rock and beat his brains in. You
don't wipe human life off the face of the Earth in order to reach that
enemy. I asked you to come down here to help me break this circle of
which I spoke. There has to be someone here--after I'm gone--"

Dell's eyes shifted to the depths of shadows beyond the firelight and
remained fixed on unseen images.

"Me? Help you?" Curt asked incredulously. "What could I do? Give up
science and become a truck gardener, too?"

"You might say that we would be in the rock business," replied Dell.
"Fighting is no longer on the level of one man with his hands about
another's throat, but it _should_ be. Those who want power and
domination should have to fight for it personally. But it has been a
long time since they had to.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Even in the old days, kings and emperors hired mercenaries to fight
their wars. The militarists don't buy swords now. They buy brains.
We're the mercenaries of the new day, Curt, you and I. Once there was
honor in our profession. We searched for truth for its own sake, and
because it was our way of life. Once we were the hope of the world
because science was a universal language.

"What a horrible joke that turned out to be! Today we are the terror of
the world. The war-makers built us fine laboratories, shining palaces,
and granted every whim--for a price. They took us up to the hills and
showed us the whole world and we sold our souls for it.

"Look what happened after the last war. Invading armies carried off
prize Nazi brains like so much loot, set the scientists up in big new
laboratories, and these new mercenaries keep right on pouring out
knowledge for other kings and emperors.

"Their loyalty is only to their science. But they can't experiment for
knowledge any more, only weapons and counter-weapons. You'll say I'm
anti-war, even, perhaps, anti-American or pro-Russian. I am not against
just wars, but I am against unjust slaughter. And I love America too
much to let her destroy herself along with the enemy."

"Then what are we to do?" Curt demanded fiercely. "What are we to do
while enemy scientists prepare these same weapons to exterminate _us_?
Sure, it's one hell of a mess. Science is already dead. The kind you
talk about has been dead for twenty years. All our fine ideals are
worthless until the politicians find a solution to their quarrels."

"Politicians? Since when did men of science have to wait upon
politicians for solutions of human problems?" Dell passed a hand over
his brow, and suddenly his face contorted in pain.

"What is it?" Curt exclaimed, rising.

"Nothing--nothing, my boy. Some minor trouble I've had lately. It will
pass in a moment."

With effort, he went on. "I wanted to say that already you have come
to think of science being divided into armed camps by the artificial
boundaries of the politicians. Has it been so long ago that it was
not even in your lifetime, when scientists regarded themselves as one
international brotherhood?"

"I can't quarrel with your ideals," said Curt softly. "But national
boundary lines do, actually, divide the scientists of the world into
armed camps."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Your premises are still incorrect. They do not deliberately war on
each other. It is only that they have blindly sold themselves as
mercenaries. And they can be called upon to redeem themselves. They can
break their unholy contracts."

"There would have to be simultaneous agreement among the scientists of
all nations. And they are men, influenced by national ideals. They are
not merely ivory-tower dabblers and searchers after truth."

"Do you remember me five years ago?" Dell's face became more haggard,
as if the memory shamed him. "Do you remember when I told the atomic
scientists to examine their guts instead of their consciences?"

"Yes. You certainly _have_ changed."

"And so can other men. There is a way. I need your help desperately,
Curt--"

The face of the aging biochemist contorted again with unbearable pain.
His forehead beaded with sweat as he clenched his skull between his
vein-knotted hands.

"Dell! What is it?"

"It will pass," Dr. Dell breathed through clenched teeth. "I have some
medicine--in my bedroom. I'm afraid I'll have to excuse myself tonight.
There's so much more I have to say to you, but we'll continue our talk
in the morning, Curt. I'm sorry--"

He stumbled out, refusing Curt's offer of aid with a grim headshake.
The fire crackled loudly within the otherwise silent room. Curt
felt cold at the descending chill of the night, his mind bewildered
at Dell's barrage, some of it so reasonable, some of it so utterly
confused. And there was no clue to the identity of the powerful force
that had made so great a change in the once militant scientist.

Slowly Curt mounted the staircase of the old house and went to the room
Dell had assigned them. Louise was in bed reading a murder mystery.

"Secret mission completed?" she asked.

Curt sat down on the edge of the bed. "I'm afraid something terrible
is wrong with Dell. Besides the neurotic guilt complex because of his
war work, he showed signs of a terrific and apparently habitual pain in
his head. If that should be brain tumor, it might explain his erratic
notions, his abandonment of his career."

"Oh, I hope it's not that!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It seemed to Curt that he had slept only minutes before he was roused
by sounds in the night. He rolled over and switched on the light. His
watch said two o'clock. Louise raised up in sharp alarm.

"What is it?" she whispered.

"I thought I heard something. There it is again!"

"It sounds like someone in pain. It must be Dell!"

Curt leaped from the bed and wrestled into his bathrobe. As he hurried
toward Dell's room, there was another deep groan that ended in a
shuddering sob of unbearable agony.

He burst into the scientist's room and switched on the light. Dell
looked up, eyes glazed with pain.

"Dr. Dell!"

"Curt--I thought I had time left, but this is as far as I can go--Just
remember all I said tonight. Don't forget a word of it." He sat up
rigidly, hardly breathing in the effort of control. "The responsibility
for the coming destruction of civilization lies at the doors of the
scientist mercenaries. Don't allow it, Curt. Get them to abandon the
laboratories of the warriors. Get them to reclaim their honor--"

He fell back upon the pillow, his face white with pain and shining with
sweat. "Brown--see Brown. He can tell you the--the rest."

"I'll go for a doctor," said Curt. "Who have you had? Louise will stay
with you."

"Don't bring a doctor. There's no escaping this. I've known it for
months. Wait here with me, Curt. I'll be gone soon."

Curt stared with pity at the great scientist whose mind had so
disintegrated. "You need a doctor. I'll call a hospital, Johns Hopkins,
if you want."

"Wait, maybe you're right. I have no phone here. Get Dr. Wilson--the
Judge Building, Towson--find his home address in a phone book."

"Fine. I'll only be a little while."

He stepped to the door.

"Curt! Take the lane down to the new road--behind the farm. Quicker--it
cuts off a mile or so--go down through the orchard--"

"All right. Take it easy now. I'll be right back."

Curt frantically got dressed, ran down the stairs and out to the car.
He wondered absently what had become of the cadaverous Brown, who
seemed to have vanished from the premises.

       *       *       *       *       *

The wheels spun gravel as he started the car and whipped it out of
the driveway. Then he was on the stretch of lane leading through the
grove. The moonless night was utterly dark, and the stream of light
ahead of the car seemed the only living thing upon the whole landscape.
He almost wished he had taken the more familiar road. To get lost now
might mean death for Dell.

No traffic flowed past him in either direction. There were no buildings
showing lights. Overwhelming desolation seemed to possess the
countryside and seep into his soul. It seemed impossible that this lay
close to the other highway with which he was familiar.

He strained his eyes into the darkness for signs of an all-night gas
station or store from which he could phone. Finally, he resigned
himself to going all the way to Towson. At that moment he glimpsed a
spark of light far ahead.

Encouraged, Curt stepped on the gas. In less than ten minutes he was at
the spot. He braked the car to a stop, and surveyed the building as he
got out. It seemed more like a power substation than anything else. But
there should be a telephone, at least.

He knocked on the door. Almost instantly, footsteps sounded within.

The door swung wide.

"I wonder if I could use your--" Curt began. He gasped. "Brown! Dell's
dying--we've got to get a doctor for him--"

As if unable to comprehend, the hired man stared dumbly for a long
moment. His hollow-cheeked face was almost skeletal in the light that
flooded out from behind him.

Then from somewhere within the building came a voice, sharp with
tension. "Brown! What the devil are you doing? Shut that door!"

That brought the figure to life. He whipped out a gun and motioned Curt
inward. "Step inside. We'll have to decide what to do with you when
Carlson finds you're here."

"What's the matter with you?" Curt asked, stupefied. "Dell's dying. He
needs help."

"Get in here!"

Curt moved slowly forward. Brown closed the door behind him and
motioned toward a closed door at the other end of a short hall. They
opened it and stepped into a dimly lighted room.

Curt's eyes slowly adjusted and he saw what seemed to be a laboratory.
It was so packed with equipment that there was scarcely room for the
group of twelve or fifteen men jammed closely about some object with
their backs to Curt and Brown.

Brown shambled forward like an agitated skeleton, breaking the circle.
Then Curt saw that the object of the men's attention was a large
cathode ray screen occupied by a single green line. There was a pip on
it rising sharply near one side of the two-foot tube. The pip moved
almost imperceptibly toward a vertical red marker over the face of the
screen. The men stared as if hypnotized by it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The newcomers' arrival, however, disturbed their attention. One man
turned with an irritable growl. "Brown, for heaven's sake--"

He was a bony creature, even more cadaverous than Brown. He caught
sight of Curt's almost indecently robust face. He gasped and swore.

"Who is this? What's he doing here?"

The entire montage of skull faces turned upon Curt. He heard a sharp
collective intake of breath, as if his presence were some unforeseen
calamity that had shaken the course of their incomprehensible lives.

"This is Curtis Johnson," said Brown. "He got lost looking for a doctor
for Dell."

A mummylike figure rose from a seat before the instrument. "Your coming
is tremendously unfortunate, but for the moment we can do nothing about
it. Sit here beside me. My name is Tarron Sark."

The man indicated a chair.

"My friend, Dr. Dell, is dying," Curt snapped out, refusing to sit
down. "I've got to get help. I saw your light and hoped you'd allow me
to use your phone. I don't know who you are nor what Dell's hired man
is doing here with you. But you've got to let me go for help!"

"No." The man, Sark, shook his head. "Dell is reconciled. He has to go.
We are awaiting precisely the event you would halt--his death."

He had known it, Curt thought, from the moment he entered that room.
Like vultures sitting on cliffs waiting for the death of their prey,
these fantastic men let their glance slip back to the screen. The green
line was a third of the way toward the red marker now, and moving more
rapidly.

It was nightmare--meaningless--

"I'm not staying," Curt insisted. "You can't prevent me from helping
Dell without assuming responsibility for his death. I demand you let me
call."

"You're not going to call," said Sark wearily. "And we assumed
responsibility for Dell's death long ago. Sit down!"

Slowly Curt sank down upon the chair beside the stranger. There was
nothing else to do. He was powerless against Brown's gun. But he'd
bring them to justice somehow, he swore.

He didn't understand the meaning of the slowly moving pattern on the
'scope face, yet, as his eyes followed that pip, he sensed tension in
the watching men that seemed sinister, almost murderous. How?

What did the inexorably advancing pip signify?

       *       *       *       *       *

No one spoke. The room was stifling hot and the breathing of the circle
of men was a dull, rattling sound in Curt's ears.

Quickly then, gathering sudden momentum, the pip accelerated. The
circle of men grew taut.

The pip crossed the red line--and vanished.

Only the smooth green trace remained, motionless and without meaning.

With hesitant shuffling of feet, the circle expanded. The men glanced
uncertainly at one another.

One said, "Well, that's the end of Dell. We'll soon know now if we're
on the right track, or if we've botched it. Carlson will call when he's
computed it."

"The end of Dell?" Curt repeated slowly, as if trying to convince
himself of what he knew had happened. "The pip on the screen--that
showed his life leaving him?"

"Yes," said Sark. "He knew he had to go. And there are perhaps hundreds
more like him. But Dell couldn't have told you of that--"

"What will we do with him?" Brown asked abruptly.

"If Dell is dead, you murdered him!" Curt shouted.

A rising personal fear grew within him. They could not release him now,
even though his story would make no sense to anybody. But they had
somehow killed Dell, or thought they had, and they wouldn't hesitate
to kill Curt. He thought of Louise in the great house with the corpse
of Haman Dell--if, of course, he was actually dead. But that was
nonsense....

"Dell must have sent you to us!" Sark said, as if a great mystery had
suddenly been lifted from his mind. "He did not have time to tell you
everything. Did he tell you to take the road behind the farm?"

Curt nodded bitterly. "He told me it was the quickest way to get to a
doctor."

"He did? Then he knew even better than we did how rapidly he was
slipping. Yes, this was the quickest way."

"What are you talking about?" Curt demanded.

"Did Dell say anything at all about what he wanted of you?"

"It was all wild. Something about helping with some crazy plans to
retreat from the scientific world. He was going to finish talking in
the morning, but I guess it wouldn't have mattered. I realize now that
he was sick and irrational."

"Too sick to explain everything, but not irrational," Sark said
thoughtfully. "He left it to us to tell you, since you are to succeed
him."

"Succeed Dell? In what?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Sark suddenly flipped a switch on a panel at his right. A screen
lighted with some fuzzy image. It cleared with a slight dial
adjustment, and Curt seemed to be looking at some oddly familiar
moonlit ruin.

"An American city," said Sark, hurrying his words now. "Any city. They
are all alike. Ruin. Death. This one died thirty years ago."

"I don't understand," Curt complained, bewildered. "Thirty years--"

"At another point in the Time Continuum," said Sark. "The future. Your
future, you understand. Or, rather, _our_ present, the one you created
for us."

Curt recoiled at the sudden venom in Sark's voice. "The _future_?" That
was what they had in common with Dell--psychosis, systematic delusions.
He had suspected danger before; now it was imminent and terrifying.

"Perhaps you are one of those who regard your accomplishments with
pride," Sark went on savagely, ignoring or unaware of Curt's fear and
horror. "That the hydrogen bombs smashed the cities, and the aerosols
destroyed the remnants of humanity seems insignificant to you beside
the high technical achievement these things represent."

Curt's throat was dry with panic. Irrelevantly, he recalled the
pain-fired eyes of Dell and the dying scientist's words: "The
responsibility for the coming destruction of civilization lies at the
doors of the scientist mercenaries--"

"Some of us _did_ manage to survive," said Sark, glaring at the scene
of gaunt rubble. Curt could see the veins pounding beneath the thin
flesh of his forehead. "We lived for twenty years with the dream of
rebuilding a world, the same dream that has followed all wars. But at
last we knew that the dream was truly vain this time. We survivors
lived in hermetically sealed caverns, trying to exist and recover our
lost science and technology.

"We could not emerge into the Earth's atmosphere. Its pollution with
virulent aerosols would persist for another hundred years. We could
not bear a new race out of these famished and rickety bodies of ours.
Unless Man was to vanish completely from the face of the Earth, we had
only a single hope. That hope was to prevent the destruction from ever
occurring!"

Sark's eyes were burning now. "Do you understand what that means? We
had to go _back_, not forward. We had to arm to fight a new war, a war
to prevent the final war that destroyed Mankind."

"Back? How could you go back?" Curt hesitated, grasping now the full
insanity of the scene about him. "How have you _come_ back?" He waited
tautly for the answer. It would be gibberish, of course, like all the
mad conversation before it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"The undisturbed flow of time from the beginning to the end--neither of
which we can experience--we call the Prime Continuum," Sark replied.
"Mathematically speaking, it is composed of billions of separate bands
of probability running side by side. For analogy, you may liken it to a
great river, whose many insignificant tributaries merge into a roaring,
turbulent whole. That is the flow of time, the Prime Continuum.

"You may change one of these tributaries, dam it up, turn it aside,
let it reach the main stream at a different point. No matter how
insignificant the tributary, the stream will not be the same after
the change. That is what we are doing. We are controlling critical
tributaries of the Prime Continuum, altering the hell that you
scientists have so generously handed down to us.

"Dell was a critical tributary. You, Dr. Curtis Johnson, are another.
Changing or destroying such key individuals snips off branches of
knowledge before they come into fruit."

It was an ungraspable answer, but it had to be argued against because
of its conclusion. "The scientists are not bringing about the war,"
Curt said, looking from one fleshless face to another. "Find the
politicians responsible, those willing to turn loose any horror to gain
power. _They_ are the ones you want."

"That would mean destroying half the human race. In your day, nearly
every man is literally a politician."

"Talk sense!" Curt said angrily.

"A politician, as we have come to define him, is simply one willing to
sacrifice the common good for his own ends. It is a highly infectious
disease in a day when altruism is taken for cowardice or mere
stupidity. No, we have not mistaken our goal, Dr. Johnson. We cannot
hasten the maturity of the race. We can only hope to take the matches
away so the children cannot burn the house down. Whatever you doubt, do
not doubt that we are from the future or that we caused Dell's death.
He is only one of many."

Curt slumped. "I did doubt it. I still do, yet not with conviction.
Why?"

"Because your own sense of guilt tells you that you and Dell and others
like you are literally the matches which we have to remove. Because
your knowledge of science has overcome your desire not to believe.
Because you _know_ the shape of the future."

"The war after the Third World War--" Curt murmured. "Someone said it
would be fought with stones and spears, but your weapons are far from
stones and spears."

"Perhaps not so far at that," said Sark, his face twisting wryly. He
reached to a nearby table and picked up a tomato and a carrot. "These
are our weapons. As humble and primitive as the stones and spears of
cavemen."

       *       *       *       *       *

"You're joking," Curt replied, almost ready to grin.

"No. This is the ultimate development of biological warfare. Man is
what he eats--"

"That's what Dell's sign said."

"We operate hundreds of gardens and farms such as Dell's. We work
through the fertilizing compounds we supply to these farms. These
compounds contain chemicals that eventually lodge in the cells of those
who eat the produce. They take up stations within the brain cells and
change the man--or destroy him.

"Certain cells of the brain are responsible for specific
characteristics. Ways of altering these cells were found by introducing
minute quantities of specific radioactive materials which could be
incorporated into vegetable foods. During the Third War wholesale
insanity was produced in entire populations by similar methods. Here,
we are using it to accomplish humane purposes.

"We are simply restraining the scientists responsible for the
destroying weapons that produced our nightmare world. You saw the
change that took place in Dell. There is a good example of what we do."

"But he _did_ change," Curt pointed out. "He _was_ carrying out your
work. Wasn't that enough for you? Why did you decide he had to die?"

"Ordinarily, we don't want to kill if the change is produced. Sometimes
the brain cells are refractory and the characteristics too ingrained.
The cells develop tumorous activity as a result of the treatment. So
it was with Dell. In his case, however, we would have been forced to
kill him by other means if he had not died as he did. This, too, he
understood very well. That was why he really wanted no doctor to help
him."

"You must have driven him insane first!"

"Look at this and see if you still think so." Sark led the way to a
small instrument and pointed to the eyepiece of it. "Look in there."

Curt bent over. Light sprang up at Sark's touch of a switch. Then a
scene began to move before Curt's eyes.

"Dell!" he exclaimed.

The scene was of some vast and well-equipped biological laboratory,
much like those of Camp Detrick. Silent, mask-faced technicians moved
with precision about their tasks. Dr. Dell was directing operations.

But there was something wrong. The figure was not the Dell that Curt
knew.

As if Sark sensed Curt's comprehension of this, the scene advanced and
swelled until the whole area of vision was filled with Dell's face.
Curt gasped. The face was blank and hideous. The eyes stared. When
the scene retreated once more, Curt saw now that Dell moved as an
automaton, almost without volition of his own.

       *       *       *       *       *

As he moved away from the bench like a sleepwalker, there came briefly
into view the figure of an armed guard at the door. The figure of a
corporal, grim in battle dress.

Curt looked up, sick as if some inner sense had divined the meaning of
that scene which he could not yet put into words.

"Had enough?" asked Sark.

"What does it mean?"

"That is Dell as he would have been. That is what he was willing to die
to avoid."

"But what _is_ it?"

"A military research laboratory twelve years into your future. You
are aware that in your own time a good deal of research has come
to a standstill because many first-string scientists have revolted
against military domination. Unfortunately, there are plenty of
second-stringers available and they are enough for most tasks--the
youngsters with new Ph.D.s who are awed by the glitter of golden
laboratories. But, lacking experience or imagination, they can't see
through the glitter or have the insight for great work. Some will
eventually, too late, however, and they will be replaced by eager new
youngsters."

"This scene of Dell--"

"Just twelve years from what you call now. Deadlier weapons will be
needed and so a bill will be passed to draft the reluctant first-line
men--against their will, if necessary."

"You can't force creative work," Curt objected.

Sark shrugged. "There are drugs that do wonderful and terrible things
to men's minds. They can force creation or mindless destruction,
confession or outrageous subterfuge. You saw your opponents make some
use of them. A cardinal, for example, and an engineer, among others.
Now you have seen your friend, Dell, as he would have been. Not the
same drugs, of course, but the end result is the same."

Curt's horror turned to stubborn disbelief. "America wouldn't use such
methods," he said flatly.

"Today? No," agreed Sark. "But when a country is committed to
inhuman warfare--even though the goal may be honorable--where is
the line to stop at? Each brutality prepares the way for the next.
Even concentration camps and extermination centers become logical
necessities. You have heard your opponents say that the end justifies
the means. You have seen for yourself--the means become the end."

"But Dell could have escaped," Curt protested. "You could have helped
him to your own time or another. He was still valuable. He needn't have
died!"

"There is no such thing as actual travel in time," explained Sark.
"Or at least in our day we have found none. There is possible only a
bending back of a branch of the Prime Continuum so that we can witness,
warn, instruct, gain aid in saving the future. And there can be meeting
only in this narrow sector of unreality where the branch joins the
main stream. Our farms adjoin such sectors, but farther than that we
cannot go, nor can one of you become a citizen of the world you have
created for us.

"But I wish it were so!" Sark bit out venomously. "We'd kidnap you
by the millions, force you to look upon the ruin and the horror, let
you breathe the atmosphere that no man can inhale and live, the only
atmosphere there is in that world. Yes, I wish you could become our
guests there. Our problem would be easier. But it can't be done. This
is the only way we can work.

"Dell had to go. There was no escape for him, no safety for us if he
lived. He would have been tracked down, captured like a beast and set
to work against his will. It was there in the Prime Continuum. Nothing
could cancel it except death, the death that saves a billion lives
because he will not produce a toxin deadlier than D. triconus."

       *       *       *       *       *

The vengeance in Sark's voice was almost tangible. Involuntarily Curt
retreated a step before it. And--almost--he thought he understood these
men out of time.

"What is there--" he began hoarsely and had to stop. "What is there
that I can do?"

"We need you to take over Dell's farm. It is of key importance. The
list of men he was treating was an extremely vital one. That work
cannot be interrupted now."

"How can you accomplish anything by operating only here?" Curt
objected. "While you stifle our defenses, our enemies are arming to the
teeth. When you've made us sufficiently helpless, they'll strike."

"Did I say we were so restricted?" answered Sark, smiling for the first
time. "You cannot imagine what a fresh vegetable means on a professor's
table in Moscow. In Atomgrad a ripe tomato is worth a pound of uranium.
How do I know? Because I walked the streets of Atomgrad with my
grandfather."

"Then you're a--"

Sark's face grew hard and bitter in the half light of the room. "Was,"
he corrected. "Or might have been. There are no nationalities where
there are no nations, no political parties where there are only hunger
and death. The crime of the future is not any person's or country's. It
is the whole of humanity's."

An alarm sounded abruptly.

"Carlson!" someone tensely exclaimed.

Sark whirled to the panels and adjusted the controls. A small screen
lighted, showing the image of a man with graying hair and imperious
face. His sharp eyes seemed to burn directly into Curt's.

"How did it go?" exclaimed Sark. "Was the Prime Continuum shift as
expected?"

"No! It still doesn't compute out. Nothing's right. The war is still
going on. The Continuum is absolute hell."

"I should have known," said Sark in dismay. "I should have called you."

"What is it? Do you know what's wrong?"

"Johnson. Dr. Curtis Johnson. He's here."

       *       *       *       *       *

Rage spread upon Carlson's face. An oath exploded from his lips.
"No wonder the situation doesn't compute with him out of the Prime
Continuum. Why did he come there?"

"Dell sent him. Dell died too quickly. He didn't have time to instruct
Johnson. I have told him what we want of him."

"Do you understand?" Carlson demanded of Curt with abruptness that was
almost anger.

Curt looked slowly about the room and back to the face of his
questioner. Understand? If they sent him back, allowed him to go back,
could he ever be sure that he had not witnessed a thing of nightmare in
this shadowy dream world?

Yes, he could be sure. He had seen the blasted city, just the way he
knew it could be--_would_ be unless someone prevented it. He had seen
the pattern on the scope, attuned to the tiny tributary of the Prime
Continuum that was the life of Dr. Dell, had seen it run out, dying as
Dell had died.

He could believe, too, that there was a little farm near Atomgrad,
where a tomato on a scientist's table was more potent than the bombs
building in the arsenal.

"I understand," he said. "Shall I go back now?"

Sark put a paper into his hands. "Here is a list of new names. You will
find Dell's procedures and records in his desk at the farm. Do not
underestimate the importance of your work. You have seen the failure of
the Prime Continuum to compute properly with you out of it. You will
correct that.

"Your only contact from now on will be through Brown, who will bring
the tank truck once a year. You know what to do. You are on your own."

It was like a surrealist painting as he left. The moon had risen, and
in all the barrenness there was nothing but the gray cement cube of
the building. The light spilling through the open doorway touched the
half dozen gaunt men who had followed him out to the car. Ahead was the
narrow band of roadway leading through some infinite nothingness that
would end in Dell's truck farm.

       *       *       *       *       *

He started off. When he looked back a moment later, the building was no
longer there.

He glanced at the list of names Sark gave him, chilled by the
importance of those men. For some there would be death as there had
been for Dell. For himself--

He had forgotten to ask. But perhaps they would not have told him. Not
at this time, anyway. The chemically treated food produced tumors in
refractory, unresponsive cells. He had eaten Dell's vegetables, would
eat more.

It was too late to ask and it didn't matter. He had important things to
do. First would be the writing of his resignation to the officials of
Camp Detrick.

As of tomorrow, he would be Dr. Curtis Johnson, truck farmer,
specialist in atomic-age produce, luscious table gifts for the innocent
and not-so-innocent human matches that would, if he and his unknown
colleagues succeeded, be prevented from cremating the hopes of Mankind.

Louise would help him hang the new sign:

    YOU ARE WHAT YOU EAT
        Eat the Best
        EAT JOHNSON'S
         VEGETABLES

Only, of course, she wouldn't know why he had taken Dell's job, nor
could he ever explain.

It would probably be the death of Curt Johnson, but that was cheap
enough if humanity survived.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Stone and a Spear, by Raymond F. Jones

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A STONE AND A SPEAR ***

***** This file should be named 51075.txt or 51075.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/0/7/51075/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
