The Project Gutenberg EBook of A Gift from Earth, by Manly Banister

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: A Gift from Earth

Author: Manly Banister

Release Date: February 5, 2016 [EBook #51129]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A GIFT FROM EARTH ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                           A Gift From Earth

                           By MANLY BANISTER

                         Illustrated by KOSSIN

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                  Galaxy Science Fiction August 1955.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]


             Except for transportation, it was absolutely
             free ... but how much would the freight cost?




"It is an outrage," said Koltan of the House of Masur, "that the
Earthmen land among the Thorabians!"

Zotul, youngest of the Masur brothers, stirred uneasily. Personally, he
was in favor of the coming of the Earthmen to the world of Zur.

At the head of the long, shining table sat old Kalrab Masur, in his
dotage, but still giving what he could of aid and comfort to the
Pottery of Masur, even though nobody listened to him any more and
he knew it. Around the table sat the six brothers--Koltan, eldest
and Director of the Pottery; Morvan, his vice-chief; Singula, their
treasurer; Thendro, sales manager; Lubiosa, export chief; and last in
the rank of age, Zotul, who was responsible for affairs of design.

"Behold, my sons," said Kalrab, stroking his scanty beard. "What are
these Earthmen to worry about? Remember the clay. It is our strength
and our fortune. It is the muscle and bone of our trade. Earthmen may
come and Earthmen may go, but clay goes on forever ... and with it, the
fame and fortune of the House of Masur."

"It _is_ a damned imposition," agreed Morvan, ignoring his father's
philosophical attitude. "They could have landed just as easily here in
Lor."

"The Thorabians will lick up the gravy," said Singula, whose mind ran
rather to matters of financial aspect, "and leave us the grease."

By this, he seemed to imply that the Thorabians would rob the Earthmen,
which the Lorians would not. The truth was that all on Zur were panting
to get their hands on that marvelous ship, which was all of metal, a
very scarce commodity on Zur, worth billions of ken.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lubiosa, who had interests in Thorabia, and many agents there, kept his
own counsel. His people were active in the matter and that was enough
for him. He would report when the time was ripe.

"Doubtless," said Zotul unexpectedly, for the youngest at a conference
was expected to keep his mouth shut and applaud the decisions of his
elders, "the Earthmen used all the metal on their planet in building
that ship. We cannot possibly bilk them of it; it is their only means
of transport."

Such frank expression of motive was unheard of, even in the secret
conclave of conference. Only the speaker's youth could account for it.
The speech drew scowls from the brothers and stern rebuke from Koltan.

"When your opinion is wanted, we will ask you for it. Meantime,
remember your position in the family."

Zotul bowed his head meekly, but he burned with resentment.

"Listen to the boy," said the aged father. "There is more wisdom in his
head than in all the rest of you. Forget the Earthmen and think only of
the clay."

Zotul did not appreciate his father's approval, for it only earned him
a beating as soon as the old man went to bed. It was a common enough
thing among the brothers Masur, as among everybody, to be frustrated in
their desires. However, they had Zotul to take it out upon, and they
did.

Still smarting, Zotul went back to his designing quarters and thought
about the Earthmen. If it was impossible to hope for much in the way
of metal from the Earthmen, what could one get from them? If he could
figure this problem out, he might rise somewhat in the estimation of
his brothers. That wouldn't take him out of the rank of scapegoat, of
course, but the beatings might become fewer and less severe.

       *       *       *       *       *

By and by, the Earthmen came to Lor, flying through the air in strange
metal contraptions. They paraded through the tile-paved streets of the
city, marveled here, as they had in Thorabia, at the buildings all of
tile inside and out, and made a great show of themselves for all the
people to see. Speeches were made through interpreters, who had much
too quickly learned the tongue of the aliens; hence these left much to
be desired in the way of clarity, though their sincerity was evident.

The Earthmen were going to do great things for the whole world of
Zur. It required but the cooperation--an excellent word, that--of all
Zurians, and many blessings would rain down from the skies. This, in
effect, was what the Earthmen had to say. Zotul felt greatly cheered,
for it refuted the attitude of his brothers without earning him a
whaling for it.

There was also some talk going around about agreements made between
the Earthmen and officials of the Lorian government, but you heard one
thing one day and another the next. Accurate reporting, much less a
newspaper, was unknown on Zur.

Finally, the Earthmen took off in their great, shining ship. Obviously,
none had succeeded in chiseling them out of it, if, indeed, any had
tried. The anti-Earthmen Faction--in any culture complex, there is
always an "anti" faction to protest any movement of endeavor--crowed
happily that the Earthmen were gone for good, and a good thing, too.

Such jubilation proved premature, however. One day, a fleet of ships
arrived and after they had landed all over the planet, Zur was
practically acrawl with Earthmen.

Immediately, the Earthmen established what they called
"corporations"--Zurian trading companies under terrestrial control. The
object of the visit was trade.

In spite of the fact that a terrestrial ship had landed at every Zurian
city of major and minor importance, and all in a single day, it took
some time for the news to spread.

The first awareness Zotul had was that, upon coming home from the
pottery one evening, he found his wife Lania proudly brandishing an
aluminum pot at him.

"What is that thing?" he asked curiously.

"A pot. I bought it at the market."

"Did you now? Well, take it back. Am I made of money that you spend my
substance for some fool's product of precious metal? Take it back, I
say!"

       *       *       *       *       *

The pretty young wife laughed at him. "Up to your ears in clay, no
wonder you hear nothing of news! The pot is very cheap. The Earthmen
are selling them everywhere. They're much better than our old clay
pots; they're light and easy to handle and they don't break when
dropped."

"What good is it?" asked Zotul, interested. "How will it hold heat,
being so light?"

"The Earthmen don't cook as we do," she explained patiently. "There is
a paper with each pot that explains how it is used. And you will have
to design a new ceramic stove for me to use the pots on."

"Don't be idiotic! Do you suppose Koltan would agree to produce a new
type of stove when the old has sold well for centuries? Besides, why do
you need a whole new stove for one little pot?"

"A dozen pots. They come in sets and are cheaper that way. And Koltan
will have to produce the new stove because all the housewives are
buying these pots and there will be a big demand for it. The Earthman
said so."

"He did, did he? These pots are only a fad. You will soon enough go
back to cooking with your old ones."

"The Earthman took them in trade--one reason why the new ones are so
cheap. There isn't a pot in the house but these metal ones, and you
will have to design and produce a new stove if you expect me to use
them."

After he had beaten his wife thoroughly for her foolishness, Zotul
stamped off in a rage and designed a new ceramic stove, one that would
accommodate the terrestrial pots very well.

And Koltan put the model into production.

"Orders already are pouring in like mad," he said the next day. "It
was wise of you to foresee it and have the design ready. Already, I am
sorry for thinking as I did about the Earthmen. They really intend to
do well by us."

The kilns of the Pottery of Masur fired day and night to keep up with
the demand for the new porcelain stoves. In three years, more than a
million had been made and sold by the Masurs alone, not counting the
hundreds of thousands of copies turned out by competitors in every
land.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the meantime, however, more things than pots came from Earth.
One was a printing press, the like of which none on Zur had ever
dreamed. This, for some unknown reason and much to the disgust of
the Lorians, was set up in Thorabia. Books and magazines poured from
it in a fantastic stream. The populace fervidly brushed up on its
scanty reading ability and bought everything available, overcome by
the novelty of it. Even Zotul bought a book--a primer in the Lorian
language--and learned how to read and write. The remainder of the
brothers Masur, on the other hand, preferred to remain in ignorance.

Moreover, the Earthmen brought miles of copper wire--more than enough
in value to buy out the governorship of any country on Zur--and set up
telegraph lines from country to country and continent to continent.
Within five years of the first landing of the Earthmen, every major
city on the globe had a printing press, a daily newspaper, and enjoyed
the instantaneous transmission of news via telegraph. And the business
of the House of Masur continued to look up.

"As I have always said from the beginning," chortled Director Koltan,
"this coming of the Earthmen had been a great thing for us, and
especially for the House of Masur."

"You didn't think so at first," Zotul pointed out, and was immediately
sorry, for Koltan turned and gave him a hiding, single-handed, for his
unthinkable impertinence.

It would do no good, Zotul realized, to bring up the fact that their
production of ceramic cooking pots had dropped off to about two per
cent of its former volume. Of course, profits on the line of new stoves
greatly overbalanced the loss, so that actually they were ahead; but
their business was now dependent upon the supply of the metal pots from
Earth.

About this time, plastic utensils--dishes, cups, knives, forks--made
their appearance on Zur. It became very stylish to eat with the
newfangled paraphernalia ... and very cheap, too, because for
everything they sold, the Earthmen always took the old ware in trade.
What they did with the stuff had been hard to believe at first. They
destroyed it, which proved how valueless it really was.

The result of the new flood was that in the following year, the sale of
Masur ceramic table service dropped to less than a tenth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Trembling with excitement at this news from their book-keeper, Koltan
called an emergency meeting. He even routed old Kalrab out of his
senile stupor for the occasion, on the off chance that the old man
might still have a little wit left that could be helpful.

"Note," Koltan announced in a shaky voice, "that the Earthmen undermine
our business," and he read off the figures.

"Perhaps," said Zotul, "it is a good thing also, as you said before,
and will result in something even better for us."

Koltan frowned, and Zotul, in fear of another beating, instantly
subsided.

"They are replacing our high-quality ceramic ware with inferior
terrestrial junk," Koltan went on bitterly. "It is only the glamor that
sells it, of course, but before the people get the shine out of their
eyes, we can be ruined."

The brothers discussed the situation for an hour, and all the while
Father Kalrab sat and pulled his scanty whiskers. Seeing that they got
nowhere with their wrangle, he cleared his throat and spoke up.

"My sons, you forget it is not the Earthmen themselves at the bottom
of your trouble, but the _things_ of Earth. Think of the telegraph and
the newspaper, how these spread news of every shipment from Earth.
The merchandise of the Earthmen is put up for sale by means of these
newspapers, which also are the property of the Earthmen. The people are
intrigued by these advertisements, as they are called, and flock to
buy. Now, if you would pull a tooth from the kwi that bites you, you
might also have advertisements of your own."

Alas for that suggestion, no newspaper would accept advertising
from the House of Masur; all available space was occupied by the
advertisements of the Earthmen.

In their dozenth conference since that first and fateful one, the
brothers Masur decided upon drastic steps. In the meantime, several
things had happened. For one, old Kalrab had passed on to his immortal
rest, but this made no real difference. For another, the Earthmen had
procured legal authority to prospect the planet for metals, of which
they found a good deal, but they told no one on Zur of this. What
they did mention was the crude oil and natural gas they discovered
in the underlayers of the planet's crust. Crews of Zurians, working
under supervision of the Earthmen, laid pipelines from the gas and oil
regions to every major and minor city on Zur.

       *       *       *       *       *

By the time ten years had passed since the landing of the first
terrestrial ship, the Earthmen were conducting a brisk business in
gas-fired ranges, furnaces and heaters ... and the Masur stove business
was gone. Moreover, the Earthmen sold the Zurians their own natural gas
at a nice profit and everybody was happy with the situation except the
brothers Masur.

The drastic steps of the brothers applied, therefore, to making an
energetic protest to the governor of Lor.

At one edge of the city, an area had been turned over to the Earthmen
for a spaceport, and the great terrestrial spaceships came to it and
departed from it at regular intervals. As the heirs of the House of
Masur walked by on their way to see the governor, Zotul observed that
much new building was taking place and wondered what it was.

"Some new devilment of the Earthmen, you can be sure," said Koltan
blackly.

In fact, the Earthmen were building an assembly plant for radio
receiving sets. The ship now standing on its fins upon the apron was
loaded with printed circuits, resistors, variable condensers and other
radio parts. This was Earth's first step toward flooding Zur with the
natural follow-up in its campaign of advertising--radio programs--with
commercials.

Happily for the brothers, they did not understand this at the time or
they would surely have gone back to be buried in their own clay.

"I think," the governor told them, "that you gentlemen have not
paused to consider the affair from all angles. You must learn to be
modern--keep up with the times! We heads of government on Zur are doing
all in our power to aid the Earthmen and facilitate their bringing a
great, new culture that can only benefit us. See how Zur has changed in
ten short years! Imagine the world of tomorrow! Why, do you know they
are even bringing _autos_ to Zur!"

The brothers were fascinated with the governor's description of these
hitherto unheard-of vehicles.

"It only remains," concluded the governor, "to build highways, and the
Earthmen are taking care of that."

At any rate, the brothers Masur were still able to console themselves
that they had their tile business. Tile served well enough for houses
and street surfacing; what better material could be devised for the new
highways the governor spoke of? There was a lot of money to be made
yet.

       *       *       *       *       *

Radio stations went up all over Zur and began broadcasting. The people
bought receiving sets like mad. The automobiles arrived and highways
were constructed.

The last hope of the brothers was dashed. The Earthmen set up plants
and began to manufacture Portland cement.

You could build a house of concrete much cheaper than with tile. Of
course, since wood was scarce on Zur, it was no competition for either
tile or concrete. Concrete floors were smoother, too, and the stuff
made far better road surfacing.

The demand for Masur tile hit rock bottom.

The next time the brothers went to see the governor, he said, "I cannot
handle such complaints as yours. I must refer you to the Merchandising
Council."

"What is that?" asked Koltan.

"It is an Earthman association that deals with complaints such as
yours. In the matter of material progress, we must expect some strain
in the fabric of our culture. Machinery has been set up to deal with
it. Here is their address; go air your troubles to them."

The business of a formal complaint was turned over by the brothers to
Zotul. It took three weeks for the Earthmen to get around to calling
him in, as a representative of the Pottery of Masur, for an interview.

All the brothers could no longer be spared from the plant, even for the
purpose of pressing a complaint. Their days of idle wealth over, they
had to get in and work with the clay with the rest of the help.

Zotul found the headquarters of the Merchandising Council as indicated
on their message. He had not been this way in some time, but was not
surprised to find that a number of old buildings had been torn down to
make room for the concrete Council House and a roomy parking lot, paved
with something called "blacktop" and jammed with an array of glittering
new automobiles.

An automobile was an expense none of the brothers could afford, now
that they barely eked a living from the pottery. Still, Zotul ached
with desire at sight of so many shiny cars. Only a few had them and
they were the envied ones of Zur.

Kent Broderick, the Earthman in charge of the Council, shook hands
jovially with Zotul. That alien custom conformed with, Zotul took a
better look at his host. Broderick was an affable, smiling individual
with genial laugh wrinkles at his eyes. A man of middle age, dressed in
the baggy costume of Zur, he looked almost like a Zurian, except for
an indefinite sense of alienness about him.

"Glad to have you call on us, Mr. Masur," boomed the Earthman, clapping
Zotul on the back. "Just tell us your troubles and we'll have you
straightened out in no time."

       *       *       *       *       *

All the chill recriminations and arguments Zotul had stored for this
occasion were dissipated in the warmth of the Earthman's manner.

Almost apologetically, Zotul told of the encroachment that had been
made upon the business of the Pottery of Masur.

"Once," he said formally, "the Masur fortune was the greatest in
the world of Zur. That was before my father, the famous Kalrab
Masur--Divinity protect him--departed this life to collect his greater
reward. He often told us, my father did, that the clay is the flesh and
bones of our culture and our fortune. Now it has been shown how prone
is the flesh to corruption and how feeble the bones. We are ruined, and
all because of new things coming from Earth."

Broderick stroked his shaven chin and looked sad. "Why didn't you come
to me sooner? This would never have happened. But now that it has,
we're going to do right by you. That is the policy of Earth--always to
do right by the customer."

"Divinity witness," Zorin said, "that we ask only compensation for
damages."

Broderick shook his head. "It is not possible to replace an immense
fortune at this late date. As I said, you should have reported your
trouble sooner. However, we can give you an opportunity to rebuild. Do
you own an automobile?"

"No."

"A gas range? A gas-fired furnace? A radio?"

Zotul had to answer no to all except the radio. "My wife Lania likes
the music," he explained. "I cannot afford the other things."

Broderick clucked sympathetically. One who could not afford the
bargain-priced merchandise of Earth must be poor indeed.

"To begin with," he said, "I am going to make you a gift of all these
luxuries you do not have." As Zotul made to protest, he cut him off
with a wave of his hand. "It is the least we can do for you. Pick a car
from the lot outside. I will arrange to have the other things delivered
and installed in your home."

"To receive gifts," said Zotul, "incurs an obligation."

"None at all," beamed the Earthman cheerily. "Every item is given to
you absolutely free--a gift from the people of Earth. All we ask is
that you pay the freight charges on the items. Our purpose is not to
make profit, but to spread technology and prosperity throughout the
Galaxy. We have already done well on numerous worlds, but working out
the full program takes time."

He chuckled deeply. "We of Earth have a saying about one of our
extremely slow-moving native animals. We say, 'Slow is the tortoise,
but sure.' And so with us. Our goal is a long-range one, with the
motto, 'Better times with better merchandise.'"

       *       *       *       *       *

The engaging manner of the man won Zotul's confidence. After all, it
was no more than fair to pay transportation.

He said, "How much does the freight cost?"

Broderick told him.

"It may seem high," said the Earthman, "but remember that Earth is
sixty-odd light-years away. After all, we are absorbing the cost of the
merchandise. All you pay is the freight, which is cheap, considering
the cost of operating an interstellar spaceship."

"Impossible," said Zotul drably. "Not I and all my brothers together
have so much money any more."

"You don't know us of Earth very well yet, but you will. I offer you
credit!"

"What is that?" asked Zotul skeptically.

"It is how the poor are enabled to enjoy all the luxuries of the
rich," said Broderick, and went on to give a thumbnail sketch of the
involutions and devolutions of credit, leaving out some angles that
might have had a discouraging effect.

On a world where credit was a totally new concept, it was enchanting.
Zotul grasped at the glittering promise with avidity. "What must I do
to get credit?"

"Just sign this paper," said Broderick, "and you become part of our
Easy Payment Plan."

Zotul drew back. "I have five brothers. If I took all these things for
myself and nothing for them, they would beat me black and blue."

"Here." Broderick handed him a sheaf of chattel mortgages. "Have each
of your brothers sign one of these, then bring them back to me. That is
all there is to it."

It sounded wonderful. But how would the brothers take it? Zotul
wrestled with his misgivings and the misgivings won.

"I will talk it over with them," he said. "Give me the total so I will
have the figures."

The total was more than it ought to be by simple addition. Zotul
pointed this out politely.

"Interest," Broderick explained. "A mere fifteen per cent. After all,
you get the merchandise free. The transportation company has to be
paid, so another company loans you the money to pay for the freight.
This small extra sum pays the lending company for its trouble."

"I see." Zotul puzzled over it sadly. "It is too much," he said. "Our
plant doesn't make enough money for us to meet the payments."

"I have a surprise for you," smiled Broderick. "Here is a contract. You
will start making ceramic parts for automobile spark plugs and certain
parts for radios and gas ranges. It is our policy to encourage local
manufacture to help bring prices down."

"We haven't the equipment."

"We will equip your plant," beamed Broderick. "It will require only
a quarter interest in your plant itself, assigned to our terrestrial
company."

       *       *       *       *       *

Zotul, anxious to possess the treasures promised by the Earthman,
won over his brothers. They signed with marks and gave up a quarter
interest in the Pottery of Masur. They rolled in the luxuries of Earth.
These, who had never known debt before, were in it up to their ears.

The retooled plant forged ahead and profits began to look up, but the
Earthmen took a fourth of them as their share in the industry.

For a year, the brothers drove their shiny new cars about on the
new concrete highways the Earthmen had built. From pumps owned by a
terrestrial company, they bought gas and oil that had been drawn from
the crust of Zur and was sold to the Zurians at a magnificent profit.
The food they ate was cooked in Earthly pots on Earth-type gas ranges,
served up on metal plates that had been stamped out on Earth. In the
winter, they toasted their shins before handsome gas grates, though
they had gas-fired central heating.

About this time, the ships from Earth brought steam-powered electric
generators. Lines went up, power was generated, and a flood of
electrical gadgets and appliances hit the market. For some reason,
batteries for the radios were no longer available and everybody had to
buy the new radios. And who could do without a radio in this modern age?

The homes of the brothers Masur blossomed on the Easy Payment Plan.
They had refrigerators, washers, driers, toasters, grills, electric
fans, air-conditioning equipment and everything else Earth could
possibly sell them.

"We will be forty years paying it all off," exulted Zotul, "but
meantime we have the things and aren't they worth it?"

But at the end of three years, the Earthmen dropped their option.
The Pottery of Masur had no more contracts. Business languished. The
Earthmen, explained Broderick, had built a plant of their own because
it was so much more efficient--and to lower prices, which was Earth's
unswerving policy, greater and greater efficiency was demanded.
Broderick was very sympathetic, but there was nothing he could do.

The introduction of television provided a further calamity. The sets
were delicate and needed frequent repairs, hence were costly to own and
maintain. But all Zurians who had to keep up with the latest from Earth
had them. Now it was possible not only to hear about things of Earth,
but to see them as they were broadcast from the video tapes.

The printing plants that turned out mortgage contracts did a lush
business.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the common people of Zur, times were good everywhere. In a decade
and a half, the Earthmen had wrought magnificent changes on this
backward world. As Broderick had said, the progress of the tortoise was
slow, but it was extremely sure.

The brothers Masur got along in spite of dropped options. They had less
money and felt the pinch of their debts more keenly, but television
kept their wives and children amused and furnished an anodyne for the
pangs of impoverishment.

The pottery income dropped to an impossible low, no matter how Zotul
designed and the brothers produced. Their figurines and religious ikons
were a drug on the market. The Earthmen made them of plastic and sold
them for less.

The brothers, unable to meet the Payments that were not so Easy any
more, looked up Zotul and cuffed him around reproachfully.

"You got us into this," they said, emphasizing their bitterness with
fists. "Go see Broderick. Tell him we are undone and must have some
contracts to continue operating."

Nursing bruises, Zotul unhappily went to the Council House again. Mr.
Broderick was no longer with them, a suave assistant informed him.
Would he like to see Mr. Siwicki instead? Zotul would.

Siwicki was tall, thin, dark and somber-looking. There was even a hint
of toughness about the set of his jaw and the hardness of his glance.

"So you can't pay," he said, tapping his teeth with a pencil. He
looked at Zotul coldly. "It is well you have come to us instead of
making it necessary for us to approach you through the courts."

"I don't know what you mean," said Zotul.

"If we have to sue, we take back the merchandise and everything
attached to them. That means you would lose your houses, for they are
attached to the furnaces. However, it is not as bad as that--yet. We
will only require you to assign the remaining three-quarters of your
pottery to us."

The brothers, when they heard of this, were too stunned to think of
beating Zotul, by which he assumed he had progressed a little and was
somewhat comforted.

"To fail," said Koltan soberly, "is not a Masur attribute. Go to the
governor and tell him what we think of this business. The House of
Masur has long supported the government with heavy taxes. Now it is
time for the government to do something for us."

       *       *       *       *       *

The governor's palace was jammed with hurrying people, a scene of
confusion that upset Zotul. The clerk who took his application for
an interview was, he noticed only vaguely, a young Earthwoman. It
was remarkable that he paid so little attention, for the female
terrestrials were picked for physical assets that made Zurian men
covetous and Zurian women envious.

"The governor will see you," she said sweetly. "He has been expecting
you."

"Me?" marveled Zotul.

She ushered him into the magnificent private office of the governor
of Lor. The man behind the desk stood up, extended his hand with a
friendly smile.

"Come in, come in! I'm glad to see you again."

Zotul stared blankly. This was not the governor. This was Broderick,
the Earthman.

"I--I came to see the governor," he said in confusion.

Broderick nodded agreeably. "I am the governor and I am well acquainted
with your case, Mr. Masur. Shall we talk it over? Please sit down."

"I don't understand. The Earthmen...." Zotul paused, coloring. "We are
about to lose our plant."

"You were about to say that the Earthmen are taking your plant away
from you. That is true. Since the House of Masur was the largest and
richest on Zur, it has taken a long time--the longest of all, in fact."

"What do you mean?"

"Yours is the last business on Zur to be taken over by us. We have
bought you out."

"Our government...."

"Your governments belong to us, too," said Broderick. "When they could
not pay for the roads, the telegraphs, the civic improvements, we took
them over, just as we are taking you over."

"You mean," exclaimed Zotul, aghast, "that you Earthmen own everything
on Zur?"

"Even your armies."

"But _why_?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Broderick clasped his hands behind back, went to the window and stared
down moodily into the street.

"You don't know what an overcrowded world is like," he said. "A street
like this, with so few people and vehicles on it, would be impossible
on Earth."

"But it's mobbed," protested Zotul. "It gave me a headache."

"And to us it's almost empty. The pressure of population on Earth has
made us range the Galaxy for places to put our extra people. The only
habitable planets, unfortunately, are populated ones. We take the least
populous worlds and--well, buy them out and move in."

"And after that?"

Broderick smiled gently. "Zur will grow. Our people will intermarry
with yours. The future population of Zur will be neither true Zurians
nor true Earthmen, but a mixture of both."

Zotul sat in silent thought. "But you did not have to buy us out. You
had the power to conquer us, even to destroy us. The whole planet could
have been yours alone." He stopped in alarm. "Or am I suggesting an
idea that didn't occur to you?"

"No," said Broderick, his usually smiling face almost pained with
memory. "We know the history of conquest all too well. Our method
causes more distress than we like to inflict, but it's better--and more
sure--than war and invasion by force. Now that the unpleasant job is
finished, we can repair the dislocations."

"At last I understand what you said about the tortoise."

"Slow but sure." Broderick beamed again and clapped Zotul on the
shoulder. "Don't worry. You'll have your job back, the same as always,
but you'll be working for us ... until the children of Earth and Zur
are equal in knowledge and therefore equal partners. That's why we had
to break down your caste system."

Zotul's eyes widened. "And that is why my brothers did not beat me when
I failed!"

"Of course. Are you ready now to take the assignment papers for you and
your brothers to sign?"

"Yes," said Zotul. "I am ready."





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Gift from Earth, by Manly Banister

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A GIFT FROM EARTH ***

***** This file should be named 51129.txt or 51129.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/1/2/51129/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
