The Project Gutenberg EBook of Made to Measure, by William Campbell Gault

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Made to Measure

Author: William Campbell Gault

Release Date: February 12, 2016 [EBook #51194]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MADE TO MEASURE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            Made to Measure

                       By WILLIAM CAMPBELL GAULT

                       Illustrated by L. WOROMAY

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                 Galaxy Science Fiction January 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




               Somewhere is an ideal mate for every man
               and woman, but Joe wasn't willing to bet
               on it.  He was a man who rolled his own!


The pressure tube locks clicked behind them, as the train moved on. It
was a strange, sighing click and to Joe it sounded like, "She's not
right--she's not right--she's not right--"

So, finally, he said it. "She's not right."

Sam, who was riding with him, looked over wonderingly. "Who isn't?"

"Vera. My wife. She's not right."

Sam frowned. "Are you serious, Joe? You mean she's--?" He tapped his
temple.

"Oh, no. I mean she's not what I want."

"That's why we have the Center," Sam answered, as if quoting, which he
was. "With the current and growing preponderance of women over men,
something had to be done. I think we've done it."

Sam was the Director of the Domestic Center and a man sold on his job.

"You've done as well as you could," Joe agreed in an argumentative way.
"You've given some reason and order to the marital competition among
women. You've almost eliminated illicit relations. You've established
a basic security for the kids. But the big job? You've missed it
completely."

"Thanks," Sam said. "That's a very small knife you've inserted between
my shoulder blades, but I'm thin-skinned." He took a deep breath.
"What, in the opinion of the Junior Assistant to the Adjutant Science
Director, was the _big_ job?"

Joe looked for some scorn in Sam's words, found it, and said, "The big
job is too big for a sociologist."

Sam seemed to flinch. "I didn't think that axe would fit alongside the
knife. I underestimated you."

"No offense," Joe said. "It's just that you have to deal with human
beings."

"Oh," Sam said. "Now it comes. You know, for a minute I forgot who you
were. I forgot you were the greatest living authority on robots. I was
thinking of you as my boyhood chum, good old Joe. You're beyond that
now, aren't you?"

"Beyond my adolescence? I hope so, though very few people are." Joe
looked at Sam squarely. "Every man wants a perfect wife, doesn't he?"

Sam shrugged. "I suppose."

"And no human is perfect, so no man gets a perfect wife. Am I right, so
far?"

"Sounds like it."

"Okay." Joe tapped Sam's chest with a hard finger. "I'm going to make a
perfect wife." He tapped his own chest. "For me, just for me, the way I
want her. No human frailties. Ideal."

"A perfect robot," Sam objected.

"A wife," Joe corrected. "A person. A human being."

"But without a brain."

"With a brain. Do you know anything about cybernetics, Sam?"

"I know just as much about cybernetics as you know about people.
Nothing."

       *       *       *       *       *

"That's not quite fair. I'm not sentimental about people, but it's
inaccurate to say I don't know anything about them. _I'm_ a person. I
think I'm--discerning and sensitive."

"Sure," Sam said. "Let's drop the subject."

"Why?"

"Because you're talking nonsense. A person without faults is not a
person. And if--it or he--she were, I don't think I'd care to know him
or her or it."

"Naturally. You're a sentimentalist. You've seen so much misery, so
much human error, so much stupidity that you've built up your natural
tolerance into a sloppy and unscientific sentimentality. It happens to
sociologists all the time."

"Joe, I'm not going to argue with you. Only one thing I ask. When
you--break the news to Vera, break it gently. And get her back to the
Center as quickly as you can. She's a choice, rare number."

Joe said nothing to that. Sam looked miserable. They sat there,
listening to the swishing, burring clicks of the airlocks, two
friends--one who dealt with people and had grown soft, the other who
dealt with machines and might not have grown at all.

As the car rose for the Inglewood station, Sam looked over, but Joe's
eyes were straight ahead. Sam got up and out of the seat.

There was a whispering sigh of escaping air and the sunlight glare of
the Inglewood station, synthetic redwood and chrome and marble.

Sam was out of the cylindrical, stainless steel car and hurrying for
the Westchester local when Joe came out onto the platform. Sam was
annoyed, it was plain.

Joe's glance went from his hurrying friend to the parking lot, and his
coupe was there with Vera behind the wheel. It was only a three block
walk, but she had to be there to meet him, every evening. That was her
major fault, her romantic sentimentality.

"Darling," she said, as he approached the coupe. "Sweetheart. Have a
good day?"

He kissed her casually. "Ordinary." She slid over and he climbed in
behind the wheel. "Sat with Sam Tullgren on the train."

"Sam's nice."

He turned on the ignition and said, "Start." The motor obediently
started and he swung out of the lot, onto Chestnut. "Sam's all right.
Kind of sentimental."

"That's what I mean."

       *       *       *       *       *

Joe was silent. The coupe went past a row of solar homes and turned on
Fulsom. Three houses from the corner, he turned into their driveway.

"You're awfully quiet," Vera said.

"I'm thinking."

"About what?" Her voice was suddenly strained. "Sam didn't try to sell
you--"

"A new wife?" He looked at her. "What makes you think that?"

"You're thinking about me, about trading me in. Joe, haven't
I--darling, is there--?" She broke off, looking even more miserable
than Sam had.

"I don't intend to trade you in," he said quietly.

She took a deep breath.

He didn't look at her. "But you're going back to the Center."

She stared at him, a film of moisture in her eyes. She didn't cry or
ask questions or protest. Joe wished she would. This was worse.

"It's not your fault," he said, after a moment. "I'm not going to get
another. You're as ideal, almost, as a human wife can ever be."

"I've tried so hard," she said. "Maybe I tried too hard."

"No," he said, "it isn't your fault. Any reasonable man would be
delighted with you, Vera. You won't be at the Center long."

"I don't want a reasonable man," she said quietly. "I want you, Joe.
I--I loved you."

He had started to get out of the car. He paused to look back. "Loved?
Did you use the past tense?"

"I used the past tense." She started to get out on her side of the car.
"I don't want to talk about it."

"But I do," he told her. "Is this love something you can turn on and
off like a faucet?"

"I don't care to explain it to you," she said. "I've got to pack." She
left the car, slammed the door, and moved hurriedly toward the house.

Joe watched her. Something was troubling him, something he couldn't
analyze, but he felt certain that if he could, it would prove to be
absurd.

He went thoughtfully into the living room and snapped on the telenews.
He saw troops moving by on foot, a file of them dispersed along a
Brazilian road. He turned the knob to another station and saw the
huge stock market board, a rebroadcast. Another twist and he saw a
disheveled, shrieking woman being transported down some tenement steps
by a pair of policemen. The small crowd on the sidewalk mugged into the
camera.

He snapped it off impatiently and went into the kitchen. The dinette
was a glass-walled alcove off this, and the table was set. There was
food on his plate, none on Vera's.

       *       *       *       *       *

He went to the living room and then, with a mutter of impatience, to
the door of the back bedroom. She had her grips open on the low bed.

"You don't have to leave tonight, you know."

"I know."

"You're being very unreasonable."

"Am I?"

"I wasn't trying to be intentionally cruel."

"Weren't you?"

His voice rose. "Will you stop talking like some damned robot? Are you
a human being, or aren't you?"

"I'm afraid I am," she said, "and that's why I'm going back to the
Center. I've changed my mind. I want to get registered. I want to find
a _man_."

She started to go past him, her grip in her hand. He put a hand on her
shoulder. "Vera, you--"

Something flashed toward his face. It was her slim, white hand, but it
didn't feel slim and white. She said, "I can see now why you weren't
made _Senior_ Assistant to the Adjutant Science Director. You're a
stupid, emotionless mechanic. A machine."

He was still staring after her when the door slammed. He thought of the
huge Domestic Center with its classes in Allure, Boudoir Manners, Diet,
Poise, Budgeting. That vast, efficient, beautifully decorated Center
which was the brain child of Sam Tullgren, but which still had to deal
with imperfect humans.

People, people, people ... and particularly women. He rose, after a
while, and went into the dinette. He sat down and stared moodily at his
food.

Little boys are made of something and snails and puppydogs' tails. What
are little girls made of? Joe didn't want a little girl; he wanted
one about a hundred and twenty-two pounds and five feet, four inches
high. He wanted her to be flat where she should be and curved where she
should be, with blonde hair and gray-green eyes and an exciting smile.

He had a medical degree, among his others. The nerves, muscles, flesh,
circulatory system could be made--and better than they were ever made
naturally. The brain would be cybernetic and fashioned after his own,
with his own mental background stored in the memory circuits.

So far, of course, he had described nothing more than a robot of flesh
and blood. The spark, now--what distinguished the better-grade robots
from people? Prenatal heat, that was it. Incubation. A mold, a heated
mold. Warmth, the spark, the sun, life.

       *       *       *       *       *

For the skin, he went to Pete Celano, the top syntho-dermatologist in
the Department.

"Something special?" Pete asked. "Not just a local skin graft? What
then?"

"A wife. A perfect wife."

Pete's grin sagged baffledly. "I don't get it, Joe. Perfect how?"

"In all ways." Joe's face was grave. "Someone ideal to live with."

"How about Vera? What was wrong with her?"

"A sentimentalist, too romantic, kind of--well, maybe not dumb,
exactly, but--"

"But not perfect. Who is, Joe?"

"My new wife is going to be."

Pete shrugged and began putting together the ingredients for the kind
of skin Joe had specified.

They're all the same, Joe thought, Sam and Pete and the rest. They
seemed to think his idea childish. He built the instillers and
incubator that night. The mold would be done by one of the Department's
engravers. Joe had the sketches and dimensions ready.

Wednesday afternoon, Burke called him in. Burke was the Senior
assistant, a job Joe had expected and been miffed about. Burke was a
jerk, in Joe's book.

This afternoon, Burke's long nose was twitching and his thin face was
gravely bleak. He had a clipped, efficient way of speaking.

"Tired, Joe?"

"What do you mean?"

"Not hitting the ball, not on the beam, no zipperoo."

"I'm--yes, I guess you're right. I've been working at home on a private
project."

"Scientific?"

"Naturally."

"Anything in particular?"

Joe took a breath, looked away, and back at Burke. "Well, a wife."

A frown, a doubtful look from the cold, blue eyes. "Robot? Dishwasher
and cook and phone answerer and like that?"

"More than that."

Slightly raised eyebrows.

"More?"

"Completely human, except she will have no human faults."

Cool smile. "Wouldn't be human, then, of course."

"_Human, but without human faults, I said!_"

"You raised your voice, Joe."

"I did."

"I'm the Senior Assistant. Junior Assistants do not raise their voices
to Senior Assistants."

"I thought you might be deaf, as well as dumb," Joe said.

A silence. The granite face of Burke was marble, then steel and finally
chromium. His voice matched it. "I'll have to talk to the Chief before
I fire you, of course. Department rule. Good afternoon."

"Go to hell."

       *       *       *       *       *

Joe went back to his desk and burned. He started with a low flame and
fed it with the grievances of the past weeks. When it began to warm his
collar, he picked up his hat and left.

Click, burr, click went the airlocks. Very few riders, this time of
the afternoon. The brain would go in, intact, and then the knowledge
instiller would work during the incubation period, feeding the
adolescent memories to the retentive circuits. She would really spend
her mental childhood in the mold, while the warmth sent the human spark
through her body.

Robot? Huh! What did they know? A human being, a product of science, a
_flawless_ human being.

The rise, the big hiss of the final airlock, and Inglewood. Joe stood
on the platform a second, looking for his car, and then realized she
wasn't there. She hadn't been there for a week, and he'd done that
every night. Silly thing, habit. Human trait.

Tonight, he'd know. The flesh had been in the mold for two days. The
synthetic nerves were plump and white under the derma-ray, the fluxo
heart was pumping steadily, the entire muscular structure kept under
pneumatic massage for muscle tone.

He'd thought of omitting the frowning muscles, but realized it would
ruin the facial contours. They weren't, however, under massage and
would not be active.

And the mind?

Well, naturally it would be tuned to his. She'd know everything he
knew. What room was there for disagreement if the minds were the same?
Smiling, as she agreed, because she couldn't frown. Her tenderness, her
romanticism would have an intensity variable, of course. He didn't want
one of these grinning simperers.

He remembered his own words: "Is this love something you can turn
on and off like a faucet?" Were his own words biting him, or only
scratching him? Something itched. An intensity variable was not a
faucet, though unscientific minds might find a crude, allegorical
resemblance.

To hell with unscientific minds.

He went down to the basement. The mold was 98.6. He watched the
knowledge instiller send its minute current to the head end of the
mold. The meter read less than a tenth of an amp. The slow, plastic
pulse of the muscle tone massage worked off a small pump near the foot
of the mold.

On the wall, the big master operating clock sent the minute currents
to the various bodily sections, building up the cells, maintaining the
organic functions. In two hours, the clock would shut off all power,
the box would cool, and there would be his--Alice. Well, why not Alice?
She had to have a name, didn't she?

       *       *       *       *       *

Warmth, that was the difference between a human and a robot, just
warmth, just the spark. Funny he'd never thought of it before. Warmth
was--it had unscientific connotations. It wasn't, though.

He went upstairs and fried some eggs. Twice a day, for a week, he had
fried eggs. Their flavor was overrated.

Then he went into the living room and snapped on the ball game.

Martin was on third and Pelter was at bat. On the mound, the lank form
of Dorffberger cast a long, grotesque shadow in the afternoon sun.
Dorffberger chewed and spat and wiped his nose with the back of his
glove. He looked over at third and yawned.

At the plate, Pelter was digging in. Pelter looked nervous.

Joe said, "Bet that Dorffberger fans him. He's got the Indian sign on
Pelter."

Then he realized he was talking to himself. Damn it. On the telenews
screen, Dorffberger looked right into the camera and nodded. He was
winding up, and the director put the ball into slow motion. Even in
slow motion, it winged.

"Ho-ho!" Joe said. "You can't hit what you can't see."

Pelter must have seen it. He caught it on the fat part of the bat,
twisting into it with all his hundred and ninety pounds. The impact
rattled the telenews screen and the telescopic cameras took over.
They followed the ball's flight about halfway to Jersey and then the
short-range eyes came back to show Pelter crossing the plate, and
Martin waiting there to shake his hand.

Joe snapped off the machine impatiently. Very unscientific game,
baseball. No rhyme or reason to it. He went out onto the porch.

The grass was dry and gray; he'd forgotten to set the sprinkler
clock, Vera's old job. Across the street, Dan Harvey sat with his
wife, each with a drink. Sat with his human wife, the poor fish. They
looked happy, though. Some people were satisfied with mediocrities.
Unscientific people.

Why was he restless? Why was he bored? Was he worried about his job?
Only slightly; the Chief thought a lot of him, a hell of a lot. The
Chief was a great guy for seniority and Burke had it, or Joe would
certainly have been Senior Assistant.

The stirring in him he didn't want to analyze and he thought of
the days he'd courted Vera, going to dances at the Center, playing
bridge at the Center, studying Greek at the Center. A fine but too
well-lighted place. You could do everything but smooch there; the
smooching came after the declaration of intentions and a man was bound
after the declaration to go through with the wedding, to live with his
chosen mate for the minimum three months of the adjustment period.

       *       *       *       *       *

Adjustment period ... another necessity for humans, for imperfect
people. Across the street, the perfectly adjusted Harveys smiled at
each other and sipped their drinks. Hell, that wasn't adjustment, that
was surrender.

He got up and went into the living room; fighting the stirring in him,
the stirring he didn't want to analyze and find absurd. He went into
the bathroom and studied his lean, now haggard face. He looked like
hell. He went into the back bedroom and smelled her perfume and went
quickly from the house and into the backyard.

He sat there until seven, listening to the throb from the basement.
The molecule agitator should have the flesh firm and finished now,
nourished by the select blood, massaged by the pulsating plastic.

At seven, she should be ready.

At seven, he went down to the basement. His heart should have been
hammering and his mind expectant, but he was just another guy going
down to the basement.

The pumps had stopped, the agitator, the instiller. He felt the mold;
it was cool to the touch. He lifted the lid, his mind on Vera for some
reason.

A beauty. The lid was fully back and his mate sat up, smiled and said,
"Hello, Joe."

"Hello, Alice. Everything all right?"

"Fine."

Her hair was a silver blonde, her features a blend of the patrician and
the classical. Her figure was neither too slim nor too stout, too flat
nor too rounded. Nowhere was there any sag.

"Thought we'd drop over to the Harveys' for a drink," Joe said. "Sort
of show you off, you know."

"Ego gratification, Joe?"

"Of course. I've some clothes upstairs for you."

"I'm sure they're lovely."

"They are lovely."

While she dressed, he phoned the Harveys. He explained about Vera
first, because Vera was what the Harveys considered a good neighbor.

Dan Harvey said sympathetically, "It happens to the best of us.
Thinking of getting a new one, Joe?"

"I've got one right here. Thought I'd drop over, sort of break the ice."

"Great," Dan said. "Fine. Dandy."

The event was of minor importance, except for the revelation involved.

The Harveys had a gift for putting guests at ease, the gift being a
cellar full of thirty-year-old bourbon the elder Harvey had bequeathed
them at the end of their adjustment period.

The talk moved here and there, over the bourbon, Alice sharing in it
rarely, though nodding when Joe was talking.

Then, at mention of someone or other, Mrs. Harvey said tolerantly,
"Well, none of us are perfect, I guess."

Alice smiled and answered, "Some of us are satisfied with mediocrities
in marriage."

Mrs. Harvey frowned doubtfully. "I don't quite understand, dear. In
any marriage, there has to be adjustment. Dan and I, for example, have
adjusted very well."

"You haven't adjusted," Alice said smilingly. "You've surrendered."

Joe coughed up half a glass of bourbon, Dan turned a sort of red-green
and Mrs. Harvey stared with her mouth open. Alice smiled.

Finally, Mrs. Harvey said, "Well, I never--"

"Of all the--" Dan Harvey said.

Joe rose and said, "Must get to bed, got to get to bed."

"Here?" Alice asked.

"No, of course not. Home. Let's go, dear. Have to rush."

Alice's smile had nothing sentimental about it.

       *       *       *       *       *

He didn't berate her until morning. He wanted time to cool off, to look
at the whole thing objectively. It just wouldn't get objective, though.

At breakfast, he said, "That was tactless last night. Very, very
tactless."

"Yes, Joe. Tact requires deception. Tact is essentially deception."

When had he said that? Oh, yes, at the Hydra Club lecture. And it was
true and he hated deception and he'd created a wife without one.

He said, "I'll have to devise a character distiller that won't require
putting you back in the mold."

"Of course, dear. Why?"

"You need just a touch of deception, just a wee shade of it."

"Of course, Joe."

So she had tact.

He went to the office with very little of the absurdity mood stirring
in him. He'd had a full breakfast, naturally.

At the office, there was a note on his desk: _Mr. Behrens wants to see
you immediately._ It bore his secretary's initials. Mr. Behrens was the
Chief.

He was a fairly short man with immense shoulders and what he'd been
told was a classical head. So he let his hair grow, and had a habit
of thrusting his chin forward when he listened. He listened to Joe's
account of the interview with Burke.

When Joe had finished, the Chief's smile was tolerant. "Ribbing him,
were you? Old Burke hasn't much sense of humor, Joe."

Joe said patiently, "I wasn't ribbing him. I took her out of the mold
last night. I ate breakfast with her this morning. She's--beautiful,
Chief. She's ideal."

The Chief looked at him for seconds, his head tilted.

Joe said, "Heat, that's what does it. If you'd like to come for dinner
with us tonight, Chief, and see for yourself--"

The Chief nodded. "I'd like that."

       *       *       *       *       *

They left a little early to avoid the crowd in the tube. Burke saw them
leaving, and his long face grew even longer.

On the trip, Joe told his boss about the cybernetic brain, about his
background and his beliefs stored in the memory circuits, and the boss
listened quietly, not committing himself with any comments.

But he did say, "I certainly thought a lot of Vera. You wouldn't have
to warm her in any incubating mold."

"Wait'll you see this one," Joe said.

And when she walked into the living room at home, when she acknowledged
the introduction to the Chief, Joe knew the old boy was sold. The Chief
could only stare.

Joe took him down to the basement then to show him the molecule
agitator, the memory feeder, the instillers.

The old boy looked it over and said, quite simply, "I'll be damned!"

They went up to a perfect dinner--and incident number two.

The Chief was a sentimentalist and he'd just lost a fine friend. This
friend was his terrier, Murph, who'd been hit by a speeding car.

The story of Murph from birth to death was a fairly long one, but never
dull. The Chief had a way with words. Even Joe, one of the world's
top-ranking non-sentimentalists, was touched by the tale. When they
came to the end, where Murph had lain in his master's arms, whimpering,
as though to comfort him, trying to lick his face, Joe's eyes were wet
and the drink wobbled in his hand.

The Chief finished in a whisper, and looked up from the carpet he'd
been staring at through the account.

And there was Alice, sitting erect, a smile of perfect joy on her face.
"How touching," she said, and grinned.

For one horror-stricken second, the Chief glared at her, and then his
questioning eyes went to Joe.

"She can't frown," Joe explained. "The muscles are there, but they need
massage to bring them to life." He paused. "I wanted a smiling wife."

The Chief inhaled heavily. "There are times when a smile is out of
order, don't you think, Joe?"

"It seems that way."

It didn't take long. Massage, orientation, practice, concentration. It
didn't take long, and she was so willing to cooperate. Golly, she was
agreeable. She was more than that; she voiced his thoughts before he
did. Because of the mental affinity, you see. He'd made sure of that.

She could frown now and she had enough deception to get by in almost
any company. These flaws were necessary, but they were still flaws and
brought her closer to being--human.

       *       *       *       *       *

At the office on Saturday morning, Sam Tullgren dropped in. Sam said,
"I've been hearing things, Joseph."

"From Vera? At the Center?"

Sam shook his head. "Vera's been too busy to have much time for the
director. She's our most popular number." Sam paused. "About the new
one. Hear she's something to see."

"You heard right. She's practically flawless, Sam. She's just what a
man needs at home." His voice, for some reason, didn't indicate the
enthusiasm he should have felt.

Sam chewed one corner of his mouth. "Why not bring her over, say,
tonight? We'll play some bridge."

That would be something. Two minds, perfectly in harmony, synchronized,
working in partnership. Joe's smile was smug. "We'll be there. At
eight-thirty."

Driving over to Westchester that night, Joe told Alice, "Sam's a
timid bidder. His wife's inclined to overbid. Plays a sacrificing
game when she knows it will gain points. Our job will be to make her
oversacrifice."

Sam's eyes opened at sight of her; his wife's narrowed. Joe took pride
in their reaction, but it was a strange, impersonal pride.

They had a drink and some small talk, and settled around the table. It
was more like a seance than a game.

They bid and made four clubs, a heart. Sam's wife got that determined
look. With the opposition holding down one leg of the rubber, she
figured to make the next bid a costly one.

She won it with six diamonds, and went down nine tricks, doubled. Sam
started to say something, after the debacle, but one look at his wife's
anguished countenance stopped him short of audibility.

Sam said consolingly, "I'm such a lousy bidder, dear. I must have given
you the wrong idea of my hand."

       *       *       *       *       *

Next time, Sam made up for his timidity. Sam, with one heart in his
hand, tried a psychic. "One heart," he said firmly.

Sam knew there was a good chance the hearts were in the oppositions'
hands, and this looked like a fine defensive tactic.

However, his wife, with a three-suit powerhouse, couldn't conceive of a
psychic from Sam. She had need of only a second round stopper in hearts
and a small slam in no trump was in the bag. She had no hearts, but
timid Sam was undoubtedly holding the ace-king.

She bid six no-trump, which was conservative for her. She didn't want
to make the mistake of having Sam let the bid die.

Joe had the ace, king, queen and jack of hearts and a three to lead to
Alice's hand. Alice finished up the hearts for a total of seven tricks,
and this time it was Mrs. Tullgren who opened her mouth to speak.

But she remembered Sam's kindness in the former hand, and she said,
"It was all my fault, darling. To think I couldn't recognize a
psychic, just because it came from you. I think we're overmatched,
sweet." She paused to smile at Joe. "Up against the man who invented
the comptin-reduco-determina." She added, as an afterthought, "And his
charming, brilliant new wife."

Which brought about incident number three.

Alice turned to Mrs. Tullgren sweetly and asked, "Don't you really
understand the comptin-reduco-determina?"

"Not even faintly," Mrs. Tullgren answered. She smiled at Alice.

The smile faded after about ten minutes. For Alice was telling her
_all_ about the comptin-reduco-determina. For an hour and nineteen
minutes, Alice talked to this woman who had been humiliated twice,
telling her all the things about the famous thinking machine that Mrs.
Tullgren didn't want to know.

It wasn't until Alice was through talking animatedly that the entranced
Joe began to suspect that perhaps the Tullgrens weren't as interested
in the dingus as a scientific mind would assume.

They weren't. There was a strain after that, a decided heaviness to the
rest of the evening. Sam seemed to sigh with relief when they said good
night.

In the car, Joe was thoughtful. Halfway home, he said, "Darling, I
think you know too much--for a female, that is. I think you'll have to
have a go with the knowledge-instiller. In reverse, of course."

"Of course," she agreed.

"I don't object to females knowing a lot. The world does."

"Of course," she said.

She was a first model and, therefore, experimental. These bugs were
bound to show up. She was now less knowing, more deceptive, and she
could frown.

She began to remind him of Vera, which didn't make sense.

Alice was sad when he was sad, gay when he was gay, and romantic to the
same split-degree in the same split-second. She even told him his old
jokes with the same inflection he always used.

Their mood affinity was geared as closely as the
comptin-reduco-determina. What more could a man want? And, damn it, why
should Vera's perfume linger in that back bedroom?

       *       *       *       *       *

The fumigators could do nothing. They left, after the third trip,
shaking their heads. Joe stood in the doorway, insisting he could still
smell it.

Alice said, "It's probably mental, dear. Perhaps you
still--still--what's that word? Perhaps you still love her."

"How could you think that?" he asked. "How? How could you think that
unless I was thinking it?"

"I couldn't. I love you, too, Joe, but you know why that is."

"What do you mean?"

"We both love you, Joe."

"Both? You and Vera?"

"No. You and I, we both love _you_."

"That," said Joe peevishly, "is ridiculous. If you could think for
yourself, you'd know it was ridiculous."

"Of course," she agreed. And frowned, because he was frowning.

"You act like a robot," Joe said.

She nodded.

"That's all you are," Joe went on evenly, "a robot. No volition."

She nodded, frowning.

"I'm sick of it."

She said nothing, sympathetically looking sick.

And then he smiled and said, "I'm not stumped. Not the inventor of the
comptin-reduco-determina. By Harry, I'll give you volition. I'll give
you enough volition to make you dizzy."

And because he was smiling, she was smiling. And only a very perceptive
person might notice that her smile seemed to have an intensity, an
anticipation slightly beyond his.

He got to work on it that night. He would have to erase some of his
mental background from her brain. He wanted her no less intelligent, no
less discerning, but with enough of a change in background to give her
a viewpoint of her own. He labored until midnight, and tumbled into
bed with a headache.

Next morning, at breakfast, he told her, "We'll try it out tonight.
After that, you'll be a person."

"Of course. And will you love me, Joe?"

"More coffee, please," he answered.

At the office, there was another note from his secretary: _Mr. Burke
wants to see you. At your convenience._

At your convenience? Was Burke going soft? Joe went right in.

       *       *       *       *       *

Burke was smiling, a miracle in itself. Burke's voice was jovial. "The
Chief's been telling me about the new wife, Joe. I guess I owe you an
apology."

"Not at all," Joe said. "I had no right to be rude. I was a little
overworked--at home. I wasn't myself."

Burke nodded smugly, soaking it up. "Beautiful, the Chief tells me. Am
I going to meet her, Joe?"

"If you want. How about tonight, for dinner? I've got something new
planned. I'm giving her volition. Maybe you'll want to watch."

"Volition?"

Joe went on to explain about volition, making it as simple as he could,
to match Burke's mind.

"That," Burke said when he'd finished, "I want to see."

They went home in the crowded Inglewood tube. Sam was there, but
Sam seemed to avoid them, for some reason. All the way home, Joe had
the uncomfortable feeling that Burke didn't believe any part of this
business, that Burke was making the trip only to substantiate his own
misconceptions.

But when Alice came into the living room, smiling brightly, extending
her hand to the Senior Assistant, Joe had a gratifying glimpse of
Burke's face.

Burke was lost. Burke stared and swallowed and grinned like a green
stage hand at a burlesque show. Burke's smile was perpetual and
nauseating. Even in the face of Alice's cool reserve.

The dinner was fine, the liquor mellow.

Then Joe said, "Well, Alice, it's time for the volition. It's time for
your _birth_ as a person."

"Of course," she said, and smiled.

They went down into the basement, the three of them; she sat in the
chair he'd prepared and he clamped on the wired helmet and adjusted the
electrodes.

Burke said weakly, "It isn't--dangerous, is it?"

"Dangerous?" Joe stared at him. "Of course not. Remember how I
explained it?"

"I--uh--my memory--" Burke subsided.

She closed her eyes and smiled. Joe threw the switch. She'd have
knowledge; she'd have the memory of her past few days of existence as
his alter ego. She'd have volition.

The contact clock took over. Her eyes remained closed, but her smile
began to fade as the second hand moved around and around the big,
contact-studded dial.

Joe was smiling, though she wasn't. Joe was filled with a sense of his
own creative power, his own inventive genius and gratification at the
worried frown on the face of the imbecile Burke.

       *       *       *       *       *

Then the clock stopped and there was a buzz; the meters dropped to
zero. Alice opened her eyes. For the first time, as a _person_, she
opened her eyes.

Her smile was back. But she was looking at Burke. Looking at Burke and
smiling!

"Baby," she said.

Burke looked puzzled, but definitely pleased. In all Burke's adult
life, no female had ever looked at him like that.

Joe said tolerantly, "You're a little confused yet, Alice. _I'm_ your
husband."

"You?" She stared at him. "Do you think I've forgotten you? Do you
think I don't know you, after living inside your brain, almost? You
_monster_, you egocentric, selfish, humorless walking equation. You're
not my husband and I'd like to see you prove that you are."

Now it was only Burke who smiled. "By George," he said, "that's right.
There's no wedding on record, is there, Joe?"

"Wedding?" Joe repeated blankly. "I made her. I created her. Of course
there's no--"

"Of course, of course, of course," Alice shrilled. "That's all you
know. You're the original 'of course' kid. Things aren't that certain,
Junior. I've known you just long enough and just well enough to detest
you." Now she pointed at Burke. "_That's_ what I want. That's my kind
of man."

Burke gulped and grinned, nodded. "To coin a phrase, you said it,
kiddo." He smiled at Joe. "I'll run her right down to the Center and
get her registered, and take out an intent option. I guess we can't
fight fate, Joe, can we?"

Joe took a deep breath of air. "I guess not. I guess it's--kismet."

He was still standing there when he heard the front door slam. He kept
staring at the machine, not seeing it, hearing instead all she had
said. She knew him better than anyone who lived. Better, actually, than
he knew himself, because she didn't rationalize, being outside his
mental sphere now. You might say she'd been in his mind and detested
what she had found there.

It was a crawling feeling, the knowledge that he had been guilty
of rationalization himself, that he had faults his mind refused to
acknowledge. He couldn't doubt that he was all the cold and gruesome
things she had called him. The worst shock, however, was that he
had studied psychology and honestly had believed he was an objective
thinker.

But who, he realized, could be completely honest about himself?

       *       *       *       *       *

He looked at the machine and saw the non-rationalization electrodes. He
had used that on her and she had seen clearly what he still couldn't
recognize. What he needed, apparently, was a good, objective look at
his own mind.

He set the contact clock for objectivity maximum and clamped the
electrodes on his head. He reached for the switch, had to close his
eyes before he could throw it.

He didn't see the second hand going around and around the clock, but he
felt the prejudice-erasing impulses, the objective-appraisal stimuli,
revealing memories that had shaped him, humiliations that had twisted
him and been forgotten, urgings and longings and guilts that he had
never known existed.

He saw himself. It was highly unpleasant.

There was a final buzz and the clock stopped. Joe opened his eyes, both
figuratively and literally. He unclamped the helmet with the electrodes
and stepped from the chair, holding onto the arm, looking at the
mirrored inside walls of the mold.

He had made an image of himself and it had turned on him. Now he
had made--what? An image of his image's image of him? It was very
confusing, yet somehow clear.

He went slowly up the stairs, smelling the perfume. It wasn't Alice's
and that was peculiar, because she had practically swabbed herself with
the stuff, knowing he liked it, and she had just left.

It was Vera's perfume.

He remembered her waiting at the station, making her ridiculous bids at
the card table, gossiping witlessly with Mrs. Harvey, hitting her thumb
when she tried to hang his pictures in the study.

Vera....

He prowled dissatisfiedly through the house, as though in search of
something, and then went out to the car. He took the super-pike almost
all the way to the Center. There were bright cards on posts every few
hundred feet:

       IT'S NOT TOO LATE
         TO GET A MATE
      THE GIRLS ARE GREAT
     AT THE DOMESTIC CENTER

He pulled into the sweeping circular drive at the huge group of
buildings. A troupe of singing girls came out, dressed in majorette
costumes, opened the door, helped him out, parked the car, escorted
him into the lavish reception room. Music came from somewhere, soft
and moody. There were murals all over the walls, every one romantic. A
dispensing machine held engagement and wedding rings with a series of
finger-holes on the left side for matching sizes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The matron recognized him and said, "Mr. Tullgren has gone home for the
day. Is there anything I can do?"

He told her what he wanted and she thumbed through a register.

"Yes, she's still here," the matron said finally. "She's refused
exactly thirty-two offers up to yesterday. You were thinking of
a--reconciliation?"

Joe nodded with a new humility. "If she'll have me."

The matron smiled. "I think she will. Women are more understanding than
men, usually. More romantic, you might say."

Nine-tenths of the building was brightly lighted, one-tenth rather
dim. In the dim tenth were the post-intent rooms, the reconciliation
chambers.

Joe sat on a yellow love-seat in one of the empty reconciliation
chambers, leafing through, but not seeing, a copy of a fashion
magazine. Then there were steps in the hall, familiar steps, and he
smelled the perfume before she came in.

She stood timidly at the archway, but Joe was even more unsure and weak
in the legs and he had trouble with his breathing.

"Joe," Vera said.

"Vera," he answered.

It wasn't much, but it seemed to be what both had in mind.

"Was there something you wanted to tell me?" she asked. "Something
important?"

"It's important to me, Vera," he said humbly. "I hope it's just as
important to you."

She looked brightly at him.

"I find it very difficult to put into words," he stumbled. "The usual
expressions of this emotion are so hackneyed. I would like to find some
other way to say it."

"Say what?"

"That I love you."

She ran to him. The impact knocked the breath out of both of them, but
neither noticed.

"Isn't the old phrase good enough, silly?" she scolded and kissed him.
"I love you too, lover baby."

Behind them, at the key words, the sonic-signal closed the hidden doors
in the archway and they were alone in the reconciliation chamber.

Joe discovered that Sam Tullgren, Director of the Domestic Center, had
thought of everything to make reconciliations complete.





End of Project Gutenberg's Made to Measure, by William Campbell Gault

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MADE TO MEASURE ***

***** This file should be named 51194.txt or 51194.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/1/9/51194/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
