The Project Gutenberg EBook of I, the Unspeakable, by Walt Sheldon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: I, the Unspeakable

Author: Walt Sheldon

Release Date: February 14, 2016 [EBook #51210]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK I, THE UNSPEAKABLE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          I, the Unspeakable

                            By WALT SHELDON

                    Illustrated by LOUIS MARCHETTI

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                  Galaxy Science Fiction April 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




              "What's in a name?" might be very dangerous
             to ask in certain societies, in which sticks
                  and stones are also a big problem!


I fought to be awake. I was dreaming, but I think I must have blushed.
I must have blushed in my sleep.

"_Do it!_" she said. "_Please do it! For me!_"

It was the voice that always came, low, intense, seductive, the sound
of your hand on silk ... and to a citizen of Northem, a conformist, it
was shocking. I was a conformist then; I was still one that morning.

I awoke. The glowlight was on, slowly increasing. I was in my living
machine in Center Four, where I belonged, and all the familiar things
were about me, reality was back, but I was breathing very hard.

I lay on the pneumo a while before getting up. I looked at the
chroner: 0703 hours, Day 17, Month IX, New Century Three. My morning
nuro-tablets had already popped from the tube, and the timer had begun
to boil an egg. The egg was there because the realfood allotment had
been increased last month. The balance of trade with Southem had just
swung a decimal or two our way.

I rose finally, stepped to the mirror, switched it to positive and
looked at myself. New wrinkles--or maybe just a deepening of the old
ones. It was beginning to show; the past two years were leaving traces.

I hadn't worried about my appearance when I'd been with the Office of
Weapons. There, I'd been able to keep pretty much to myself, doing
research on magnetic mechanics as applied to space drive. But other
jobs, where you had to be among people, might be different. I needed
every possible thing in my favor.

Yes, I still hoped for a job, even after two years. I still meant to
keep on plugging, making the rounds.

I'd go out again today.

The timer clicked and my egg was ready. I swallowed the tablets and
then took the egg to the table to savor it and make it last.

As I leaned forward to sit, the metal tag dangled from my neck,
catching the glowlight. My identity tag.

Everything came back in a rush--

My name. The dream and _her_ voice. And her suggestion.

_Would I dare? Would I start out this very morning and take the risk,
the terrible risk?_

       *       *       *       *       *

You remember renumbering. Two years ago. You remember how it was then;
how everybody looked forward to his new designation, and how everybody
made jokes about the way the letters came out, and how all the records
were for a while fouled up beyond recognition.

The telecomics kidded renumbering. One went a little too far and
they psycho-scanned him and then sent him to Marscol as a dangerous
nonconform.

If you were disappointed with your new designation, you didn't
complain. You didn't want a sudden visit from the Deacons during the
night.

There had to be renumbering. We all understood that. With the
population of Northem already past two billion, the old designations
were too clumsy. Renumbering was efficient. It contributed to the good
of Northem. It helped advance the warless struggle with Southem.

The equator is the boundary. I understand that once there was
a political difference and that the two superstates sprawled
longitudinally, not latitudinally, over the globe. Now they are pretty
much the same. There is the truce, and they are both geared for war.
They are both efficient states, as tightly controlled as an experiment
with enzymes, as microsurgery, as the temper of a diplomat.

We were renumbered, then, in Northem. You know the system: everybody
now has six digits and an additional prefix or suffix of four letters.
Stateleader, for instance, has the designation AAAA-111/111. Now, to
address somebody by calling off four letters is a little clumsy. We try
to pronounce them when they are pronounceable. That is, no one says to
Stateleader, "Good morning, A-A-A-A." They say, "Good morning, Aaaa."

Reading the last quote, I notice a curious effect. It says what I feel.
Of course I didn't feel that way on that particular morning. I was
still conformal; the last thing in my mind was that I would infract and
be psycho-scanned.

Four letters then, and in many cases a pronounceable four letter word.

A four letter word.

Yes, you suspect already. You know what a four letter word can be.

Mine was.

It was unspeakable.

The slight weight on my forehead reminded me that I still wore my
sleep-learner. I'd been studying administrative cybernetics, hoping to
qualify in that field, although it was a poor substitute for a space
drive expert. I removed the band and stepped across the room and
turned off the oscillator. I went back to my egg and my bitter memories.

I will never forget the first day I received my new four letter
combination and reported it to my chief, as required. I was unthinkably
embarrassed. He didn't say anything. He just swallowed and choked
and became crimson when he saw it. He didn't dare pass it to his
secretarial engineer; he went to the administrative circuits and
registered it himself.

I can't blame him for easing me out. He was trying to run an efficient
organization, after all, and no doubt I upset its efficiency. My work
was important--magnetic mechanics was the only way to handle quanta
reaction, or the so-called non-energy drive, and was therefore the
answer to feasible space travel beyond our present limit of Mars--and
there were frequent inspection tours by Big Wheels and Very Important
Persons.

Whenever anyone, especially a woman, asked my name, the embarrassment
would become a crackling electric field all about us. The best tactic
was just not to answer.

       *       *       *       *       *

The chief called me in one day. He looked haggard.

"Er--old man," he said, not quite able to bring himself to utter my
name, "I'm going to have to switch you to another department. How would
you like to work on nutrition kits? Very interesting work."

"Nutrition kits? _Me?_ On nutrition kits?"

"Well, I--er--know it sounds unusual, but it justifies. I just had
the cybs work it over in the light of present regulations, and it
justifies."

Everything had to justify, of course. Every act in the monthly report
had to be covered by regulations and cross-regulations. Of course there
were so many regulations that if you just took the time to work it out,
you could justify damn near anything. I knew what the chief was up to.
Just to remove me from my post would have taken a year of applications
and hearings and innumerable visits to the capital in Center One. But
if I should infract--deliberately infract--it would enable the chief to
let me go. The equivalent of resigning.

"I'll infract," I said. "Rather than go on nutrition kits, I'll
infract."

He looked vastly relieved. "Uh--fine," he said. "I rather hoped you
would."

It took a week or so. Then I was on Non-Productive status and issued an
N/P book for my necessities. Very few luxury coupons in the N/P book.
I didn't really mind at first. My new living machine was smaller, but
basically comfortable, and since I was still a loyal member of the
state and a verified conformist, I wouldn't starve.

But I didn't know what I was in for.

I went from bureau to bureau, office to office, department to
department--any place where they might use a space drive expert. A
pattern began to emerge; the same story everywhere. When I mentioned my
specialty they would look delighted. When I handed them my tag and they
saw my name, they would go into immediate polite confusion. As soon as
they recovered they would say they'd call me if anything turned up....

       *       *       *       *       *

A few weeks of this and I became a bit dazed.

And then there was the problem of everyday existence. You might say
it's lucky to be an N/P for a while. I've heard people say that. Basic
needs provided, worlds of leisure time; on the surface it sounds
attractive.

But let me give you an example. Say it is monthly realfood day. You go
to the store, your mouth already watering in anticipation. You take
your place in line and wait for your package. The distributor takes
your coupon book and is all ready to reach for your package--and then
he sees the fatal letters N/P. Non-Producer. A drone, a drain upon the
State. You can see his stare curdle. He scowls at the book again.

"Not sure this is in order. Better go to the end of the line. We'll
check it later."

You know what happens before the end of the line reaches the counter.
No more packages.

Well, I couldn't get myself off N/P status until I got a post, and
with my name I _couldn't_ get a post.

Nor could I change my name. You know what happens when you try to
change something already on the records. The very idea of wanting
change implies criticism of the State. Unthinkable behavior.

That was why this curious dream voice shocked me so. The thing that it
suggested was quite as embarrassing as its non-standard, emotional,
provocative tone.

Bear with me; I'm getting to the voice--to _her_--in a moment.

I want to tell you first about the loneliness, the terrible loneliness.
I could hardly join group games at any of the rec centers. I could join
no special interest clubs or even State Loyalty chapters. Although I
dabbled with theoretical research in my own quarters, I could scarcely
submit any findings for publication--not with my name attached. A
pseudonym would have been non-regulation and illegal.

But there was the worst thing of all. I could not mate.

       *       *       *       *       *

Funny, I hadn't thought about mating until it became impossible. I
remember the first time, out of sheer idleness, I wandered into a
Eugenic Center. I filled out my form very carefully and submitted it
for analysis and assignment. The clerk saw my name, and did the usual
double-take. He coughed and swallowed and fidgeted.

He said, "Of course you understand that we must submit your
application to the woman authorized to spend time in the mating booths
with you, and that she has the right to refuse."

"Yes, I understand that."

"M'm," he said, and dismissed me with a nod.

I waited for a call in the next few weeks, still hoping, but I knew
no woman would consent to meet a man with my name, let alone enter a
mating booth with him.

The urge to reproduce myself became unbearable. I concocted all sorts
of wild schemes.

I might infract socially and be classified a nonconform and sent to
Marscol. I'd heard rumors that in that desolate land, on that desolate
planet, both mingling and mating were rather disgustingly unrestricted.
Casual mating would be terribly dangerous, of course, with all the wild
irradiated genes from the atomic decade still around, but I felt I'd be
willing to risk that. Well, almost....

About then I began to have these dreams. As I've told you, in the dream
there was only this woman's seductive voice. The first time I heard it
I awoke in a warm sweat and swore something had gone wrong with the
sleep-learner. You never hear the actual words with this machine, of
course; you simply absorb the concepts unconsciously. Still, it seemed
an explanation. I checked thoroughly. Nothing wrong.

The next night I heard the woman's voice again.

"_Try it_," she said. "_Do it. Start tomorrow to get your name changed.
There will be a way. There must be a way. The rules are so mixed up
that a clever man can do almost anything. Do it, please--for me._"

       *       *       *       *       *

She was not only trying to get me to commit nonconformity, but making
heretical remarks besides. I awoke that time and half-expected a Deacon
to pop out of the tube and turn his electric club upon me.

And I heard the voice nearly every night.

It hammered away.

"_What if you do fail? Almost anything would be better than the
miserable existence you're leading now!_"

One morning I even caught myself wondering just how I'd go about this
idea of hers. Wondering what the first step might be.

She seemed to read my thoughts. That night she said, "_Consult the cybs
in the Govpub office. If you look hard enough and long enough, you'll
find a way._"

Now, on this morning of the seventeenth day in the ninth month,
I ate my boiled egg slowly and actually toyed with the idea. I
thought of being on productive status again. I had almost lost my
fanatical craving to be useful to the State, but I did want to be
busy--desperately. I didn't want to be despised any more. I didn't
want to be lonely. I wanted to reproduce myself.

I made my decision suddenly. Waves of emotion carried me along. I got
up, crossed the room to the directory, and pushbuttoned to find the
location of the nearest Govpub office.

I didn't know what would happen and almost didn't care.


II

Like most important places, the Govpub Office in Center Four was
underground. I could have taken a tunnelcar more quickly, but it seemed
pleasanter to travel topside. Or maybe I just wanted to put this off a
bit. Think about it. Compose myself.

At the entrance to the Govpub warren there was a big director cyb, a
plate with a speaker and switch. The sign on it said to switch it on
and get close to the speaker and I did.

The cyb's mechanical voice--they never seem to get the "th" sounds
right--said, "This is Branch Four of the Office of Government
Publications. Say, 'Publications,' and/or, 'Information desired,' as
thoroughly and concisely as possible. Use approved voice and standard
phraseology."

Well, simple enough so far. I had always rather prided myself on my
knack for approved voice, those flat, emotionless tones that indicate
efficiency. And I would never forget how to speak Statese. I said,
"Applicant desires all pertinent information relative assignment,
change or amendment of State Serial designations, otherwise generally
referred to as nomenclature."

There was a second's delay while the audio patterns tripped relays and
brought the memory tubes in.

Then the cyb said, "Proceed to Numbering and Identity section. Consult
alphabetical list and diagram on your left for location of same."

"Thanks," I said absent-mindedly.

I started to turn away and the cyb said, "Information on tanks is
military information and classified. State authorization for--"

I switched it off.

       *       *       *       *       *

Numbering and Identity wasn't hard to find. I took the shaft to the
proper level and then it was only a walk of a few hundred yards through
the glowlit corridors.

N. & I. turned out to be a big room, somewhat circular, very
high-ceilinged, with banks of cyb controls covering the upper walls.
Narrow passageways, like spokes, led off in several directions. There
was an information desk in the center of the room.

I looked that way and my heart went into free fall.

There was a girl at the information desk. An exceptionally attractive
girl. She was well within the limits of acceptable standard, and her
features were even enough, and her hair a middle blonde--but she had
something else. Hard to describe. It was a warmth, a buoyancy, a sense
of life and intense animation. It didn't exactly show; it radiated. It
seemed to sing out from her clear complexion, from her figure, which
even a tunic could not hide, from everything about her.

And if I were to state my business, I would have to tell her my name.

I almost backed out right then. I stopped momentarily. And then common
sense took hold and I realized that if I were to go through with this
thing, here would be only the first of a long series of embarrassments
and discomforts. It had to be done.

I walked up to the desk and the girl turned to face me, and I could
have sworn that a faint smile crossed her lips. It was swift, like the
shadow of a bird across one of the lawns in one of the great parks
topside. Very non-standard. Yet I wasn't offended; if anything, I felt
suddenly and disturbingly pleased.

"What information is desired?" she asked. Her voice was standard--or
was it?

Again I had the feeling of restrained warmth.

I used colloquial. "I want to get the dope on State Serial
designations, how they're assigned and so forth. Especially how they
might be changed."

She put a handsteno on the desk top and said, "Name? Address? Post?"

I froze. I stood there and stared at her.

She looked up and said, "Well?"

"I--er--no post at present. N/P status."

Her fingers moved on the steno.

I gave her my address and she recorded that.

Then I paused again.

She said, "And your name?"

I took a deep breath and told her.

I didn't want to look into her eyes. I wanted to look away, but I
couldn't find a decent excuse to. I saw her eyes become wide and
noticed for the first time that they were a warm gray, almost a mouse
color. I felt like laughing at that irrelevant observation, but more
than that I felt like turning and running. I felt like climbing and
dashing all over the walls like a frustrated cat and yelling at the
top of my lungs. I felt like anything but standing there and looking
stupid, meeting her stare--

       *       *       *       *       *

She looked down quickly and recorded my name. It took her a little
longer than necessary. In that time she recovered. Somewhat.

"All right," she said finally, "I'll make a search."

She turned to a row of buttons on a console in the center of the desk
and began to press them in various combinations. A typer clicked away.
She tore off a slip of paper, consulted it, and said, "Information
desired is in Bank 29. Please follow me."

Well, following her was a pleasure, anyway. I could watch the movement
of her hips and torso as she walked. She was not tall, but long-legged
and extremely lithe. Graceful and rhythmic. Very, very feminine, almost
beyond standard in that respect. I felt blood throb in my temples and
was heartily ashamed of myself.

I would like to be in a mating booth with her, I thought, the full
authorized twenty minutes. And I knew I was unconformist and the
realization hardly scared me at all.

She led me down one of the long passageways.

A few moments later I said, "Don't you sometimes get--well, pretty
lonely working here?" Personal talk at a time like this wasn't approved
behavior, but I couldn't help it.

She answered hesitantly, but at least she answered. She said, "Not
terribly. The cybs are company enough most of the time."

"You don't get many visitors, then."

"Not right here. N. & I. isn't a very popular section. Most people who
come to Govpub spend their time researching in the ancient manuscript
room. The--er--social habits of the pre-atomic civilization."

I laughed. I knew what she meant, all right. Pre-atomics and their
ideas about free mating always fascinated people. I moved up beside
her. "What's your name, by the way?"

"L-A-R-A 339/827."

I pronounced it. "Lara. Lah-rah. That's beautiful. Fits you, too."

       *       *       *       *       *

She didn't answer; she kept her eyes straight ahead and I saw the faint
spot of color on her cheek.

I had a sudden impulse to ask her to meet me after hours at one
of the rec centers. If it had been my danger alone, I might have,
but I couldn't very well ask her to risk discovery of a haphazard,
unauthorized arrangement like that and the possibility of going to the
psycho-scan.

We came to a turn in the corridor and something happened; I'm not sure
just how it happened. I keep telling myself that my movements were not
actually deliberate. I was to the right of her. The turn was to the
left. She turned quickly, and I didn't, so that I bumped into her,
knocking her off balance. I grabbed her to keep her from falling.

For a moment we stood there, face to face, touching each other lightly.
I held her by the arms. I felt the primitive warmth of her breath. Our
eyes held together ... proton ... electron ... I felt her tremble.

She broke from my grip suddenly and started off again.

After that she was very business-like.

We came finally to the controls of Bank 29 and she stood before them
and began to press button combinations. I watched her work; I watched
her move. I had almost forgotten why I'd come here. The lights blinked
on and off and the typers clacked softly as the machine sorted out
information.

She had a long printed sheet from the roll presently. She frowned at
it and turned to me. "You can take this along and study it," she said,
"but I'm afraid what you have in mind may be--a little difficult."

She must have guessed what I had in mind. I said, "I didn't think it
would be easy."

"It seems that the only agency authorized to change a State Serial
under any circumstances is Opsych."

"Opsych?" You can't keep up with all these departments.

"The Office of Psychological Adjustment. They can change you if you go
from a lower to higher E.A.C."

"I don't get it, exactly."

As she spoke I had the idea that there was sympathy in her voice. Just
an overtone. "Well," she said, "as you know, the post a person is
qualified to hold often depends largely on his Emotional Adjustment
Category. Now if he improves and passes from, let us say, Grade 3 to
Grade 4, he will probably change his place of work. In order to protect
him from any associative maladjustments developed under the old E.A.C,
he is permitted a new number."

I groaned. "But I'm already in the highest E.A.C.!"

"It looks very uncertain then."

"Sometimes I think I'd be better off in the mines, or on
Marscol--or--in the hell of the pre-atomics!"

She looked amused. "What did you say your E.A.C. was?"

"Oh, all right. Sorry." I controlled myself and grinned. "I guess this
whole thing has been just a little too much for me. Maybe my E.A.C.'s
even gone down."

"That might be your chance then."

"How do you mean?"

"If you could get to the top man in Opsych and demonstrate that your
number has inadvertently changed your E.A.C., he might be able to
justify a change."

"By the State, he might!" I punched my palm. "Only how do I get to him?"

"I can find his location on the cyb here. Center One, the capital, for
a guess. You'll have to get a travel permit to go there, of course.
Just a moment."

She worked at the machine again, trying it on general data. The printed
slip came out a moment later and she read it to me. Chief, Opsych, was
in the capital all right. It didn't give the exact location of his
office, but it did tell how to find the underground bay in Center One
containing the Opsych offices.

We headed back through the passageway then and she kept well ahead of
me. I couldn't keep my eyes from her walk, from the way she walked with
everything below her shoulders. My blood was pounding at my temples
again.

I tried to keep the conversation going. "Do you think it'll be hard to
get a travel permit?"

"Not impossible. My guess is that you'll be at Travbur all day
tomorrow, maybe even the next day. But you ought to be able to swing it
if you hold out long enough."

I sighed. "I know. It's that way everywhere in Northem. Our motto ought
to be, 'Why make it difficult when with just a little more effort you
can make it impossible?'"

       *       *       *       *       *

She started to laugh, and then, as she emerged from the passageway into
the big circular room, she cut her laugh short.

A second later, as I came along, I saw why.

There were two Deacons by the central desk. They were burly and had
that hard, pinched-face look and wore the usual black belts. Electric
clubs hung from the belts. Spidery looking pistols were at their sides.

I didn't know whether these two had heard my crack or not. I know they
kept looking at me.

Lara and I crossed the room silently, she back to her desk, I to the
exit door. The Deacons' remote, disapproving eyes swung in azimuth,
tracking us.

I walked out and wanted to turn and smile at Lara, and get into my
smile something of the hope that someday, somewhere, I'd see her
again--but of course I didn't dare.


III

I had the usual difficulties at Travbur the next day. I won't go into
them, except to say that I was batted from office to office like a ping
pong ball, and that, when I finally got my travel permit, I was made to
feel that I had stolen an original Picasso from the State Museum.

I made it in a day. Just. I got my permit thirty seconds before closing
time. I was to take the jetcopter to Center One at 0700 hours the
following morning.

In my living machine that evening, I was much too excited to work at
theoretical research as I usually did after a hard day of tramping
around. I bathed, I paced a while, I sat and hummed nervously and
got up and paced again. I turned on the telepuppets. There was a
drama about the space pilots who fly the nonconformist prisoners to
the forests and pulp-acetate plants on Mars. Seemed that the Southem
political prisoners who are confined to the southern hemisphere of
Mars, wanted to attack and conquer the north. The nonconformists, led
by our pilot, came through for the State in the end. Corn is thicker
than water. Standard.

There were, however, some good stereofilm shots of the limitless
forests of Mars, and I wondered what it would be like to live there, in
a green, fresh-smelling land. Pleasant, I supposed, if you could put up
with the no doubt revolting morality of a prison planet.

And the drama seemed to point out that there was no more security for
the nonconformists out there than for us here on Earth. Maybe somewhere
in the universe, I thought, there would be peace for men. Somewhere
beyond the solar system, perhaps, someday when we had the means to go
there....

Yet instinct told me that wasn't the answer, either. I thought of a
verse by an ancient pre-atomic poet named Hoffenstein. (People had
unwieldy, random combinations of letters for names in those days.) The
poem went:

    Wherever I go,
    _I_ go too,
    And spoil everything.

That was it. The story of mankind.

I turned the glowlight down and lay on the pneumo after a while, but I
didn't sleep for a long, long time.

Then, when I did sleep, when I had been sleeping, I heard the voice
again. The low, seductive woman's voice--the startling, shocking voice
out of my unconscious.

"_You have taken the first step_," she said. "_You are on your way
to freedom. Don't stop now. Don't sink back into the lifelessness of
conformity. Go on ... on and on. Keep struggling, for that is the only
answer...._"

       *       *       *       *       *

I didn't exactly talk back, but in the queer way of the dream, I
_thought_ objections. I was in my thirties, at the mid-point of my
life, and the whole of that life had been spent under the State. I knew
no other way to act. Suppressing what little individuality I might
have was, for me, a way of survival. I was chockful of prescribed,
stereotyped reactions, and I held onto them even when something within
me told me what they were. This wasn't easy, this breaking away, not
even this slight departure from the secure, camouflaged norm....

"_The woman, Lara, attracts you_," said the voice.

I suppose at that point I twitched or rolled in my sleep. Yes, the
voice was right, the woman Lara attracted me. So much that I ached with
it.

"_Take her. Find a way. When you succeed in changing your name, and
know that you can do things, then find a way. There will be a way._"

The idea at once thrilled and frightened me.

I woke writhing and in a sweat again.

It was morning.

I dressed and headed for the jetcopter stage and the ship for Center
One.

The ship was comfortable and departed on time, a transport with seats
for about twenty passengers. I sat near the tail and moodily busied
myself watching the gaunt brown earth far below. Between Centers there
was mostly desert, only occasional patches of green. Before the atomic
decade, I had heard, nearly all the earth was green and teemed with
life ... birds, insects, animals, people, too. It was hard rock and
sand now, with a few scrubs hanging on for life. The pre-atomics, who
hadn't mastered synthesization, would have a hard time scratching
existence from the earth today.

I tried to break the sad mood, and started to look around at some of
the other passengers. That was when I first noticed the prisoners
in the forward seats. Man and woman, they were, a youngish, rather
non-descript couple, thin, very quiet. They were manacled and two
Deacons sat across from them. The Deacons' backs were turned to me and
I could see the prisoners' faces.

They had curious faces. Their eyes were indescribably sad, and yet
their lips seemed to be ready to smile at any moment.

They were holding hands, not seeming to care about this vulgar
emotional display.

I had the sudden crazy idea that Lara and I were sitting there, holding
hands like that, nonconforming in the highest, and that we were
wonderfully happy. Our eyes were sad too, but we were really happy,
quietly happy, and that was why our lips stayed upon the brink of a
smile.

       *       *       *       *       *

I sighed. My mood was just as sad, if not sadder, than it had been
before.

Later, in the rest room, I had a chance to talk to one of the Deacons
guarding these two. I was washing my hands when he came in, and he
nodded to me briefly and said, "Nice day for a flight."

He seemed pleasant enough, more than I would expect a Deacon to be. He
was tall and blond and rather lithe; his shoulders sloped forward like
a boxer's.

"Taking those prisoners to Center One?" I asked.

He nodded. "Yup. Habitual nonconforms. About as bad as they come."

"What did they do?"

He chuckled lasciviously. "Kept meeting each other in the rec centers.
Didn't know they were being watched. We nabbed 'em topside after they'd
gone out in the desert together."

"What happens to them now--Marscol?"

"They'd be lucky, brother, if that was only it. Oh, we'll ship 'em to
Mars sooner or later, but first they got to be interviewed."

"You mean for reclassification?"

"No. Just interviewed. We do it routine with everybody we pick up now.
Specially morals cases. That's how we crack down on other nonconforms.
They got a regular organization, you know."

"They _have_?"

"Sure. They're all Southem spies. Trying to weaken us for an attack,
that's all. I can spot 'em a mile away."

I frowned and cleared my throat a little. "Wouldn't you think that any
spies would try to act as normal as possible and not call attention to
themselves by infracting morally?"

He put a big finger on my chest. "Listen, you got no idea. I see these
buzzards in operation all the time. I know what goes on."

"Of course. I'm sure you do." I kept the sarcasm out of my voice, but
it was a struggle.

The finger tapped my chest, once to every word, it seemed. "We
interview 'em all. Some of 'em, they really got nothing to tell us and
the interview kind of breaks 'em. Know what I mean? But we got to do
it. If we only get dope on other nonconforms from one out of ten, we
figure we didn't waste our time."

"You mean these--interviews of yours are a form of _torture_?"

He gave me a hard eye and said, "We don't call it that, brother. We
don't call it that."

"Of course," I said again, and went back to washing my hands.

I watched the prisoners for the rest of the flight. I couldn't stop
watching them. And all this time I kept thinking of Lara, visualizing
her, seeing her young figure and her light hair and her mouse-colored
eyes, and not really knowing why.

I had the overpowering desire to spring forward and throttle the two
Deacons and help the prisoners to escape. _Almost_ overpowering. I
didn't, naturally.

The jetcopter lowered toward the great green parks that cover the
topside area of Center One. It was really refreshing to see them. I
understood that the lucky residents of Center One were allowed to
wander in these parks, and look at the growing things and the sky.
Then, presently, the parks were out of sight again and we were settling
on the concrete landing stage and I was back to reality.

       *       *       *       *       *

The first contact at the Office of Psychological Adjustment was, as
usual, an information desk. There were people instead of cybs to greet
you and I suppose that was because of the special complications of
problems brought here. The cybs have their limits, after all.

A gray man with a gray eye and a face like a mimeographed bulletin
looked at me and said, in approved voice and standard phraseology,
"what information is desired?"

I told him.

His eyebrows rose, as if suddenly buoyant. "_Change your name?_ That's
impossible."

I quoted, verse and chapter, the regulation covering it. "H'm," he
said. His eyebrows came down, cuddling into a scowl. "Well, that's
highly unusual procedure. Better let me see your identity tag."

I gave that to him and he saw my N/P status, and then my unspeakable
name, and his eyebrows went up again.

"Perhaps you'd better get this straightened out with General
Administration first," he said. He scribbled a slip of paper, showing
me how to get there.

The rat race was on.

I found General Administration. They sent me to Activity Control.
Activity Control said they couldn't do a thing until I was registered.
I went to Registration. Registration said oh, no, I shouldn't have
been sent there--although they'd try to direct me to the proper office
if I got an okay from Investigation and Security. I. & S. said the
regulation I quoted had been amended and I would have to have the
amendment first and I could find that in Records. Records sent me back
to the first place to get a Search Permit.

And so on.

I kept at it doggedly. Toward the end of the day my legs ached and head
felt like a ball of granite. I had discovered that Opsych had nearly as
many levels and tunnels and bays as Center Four in its entirety, and
I had taken the intercom cars when possible, but most of it had been
walking. I tightened my jaw and pulled my stomach in. I'd get to see
the Chief if it took me a year.

That was hyperbole, of course. No man could last a year walking those
dim, monotonous, aseptic corridors. How can I describe the feeling? The
corridors are the same wherever you go. The glowlight comes steadily,
unblinkingly, from the walls. The color is a dead oyster white.

There is always the feeling of being lost--even when you know, or think
you know, exactly where you are.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was near the end of the day and I was back at the information desk.

"You again," said the gray man with the gray eye.

"Records says I need a Search Permit. I have to find an amendment on
the regulation covering my case."

"Why don't you just give up? You're causing us a great deal of trouble,
you know. We have other work to do. Important work."

"So have I. I'm a magnetic mechanics expert. I could be working for
the State right now if I could get a post. I can't get a post till my
name's changed."

"That's ridiculous."

"I agree. But it's true just the same."

"Well, here's your Search Permit. But I still think you'd be wiser to
forget it. And you'd save us a lot of fuss."

I leaned across the desk. "You could save the whole organization a lot
of fuss if you'd direct me to the Chief's office. Then I could take my
case up with him directly. I've been keeping my eye open for it, but I
can't find it anywhere, and of course nobody'll direct me there, even
if they know where it is."

He stared at me with mild horror. "_Go direct to the Chief's office?
Without going through channels?_"

"Well, that's what I had in mind."

"Then you'd better get it out of your mind. That's pretty dangerous
thinking. That's close to infraction."

"All right." I sighed. "I'll do it the hard way." I took the Search
Permit and went back to Records. I was still searching for the
amendment when closing time came.

I went back into the dim white corridors and found a foodmat, got some
nutro-pills and reviewed the day. These workers here in Center One
were experts at putting you off. They were much more skilful than the
officials in Center Four. Maybe that was why they were in Center One.
Maybe I never would wear them down.

That thought came along and formed a ball of ice right in the bottom of
my stomach.

I had to think. I had to think and rest. Real air and a night breeze
would help.

I found a shaft and went topside.

I started walking along a winding trail in the great park. The stars
were out. They were diamonds, ground to dust, and thrown carelessly
across the black velvet of the sky. The moon had not yet risen. There
was a breeze, cool and light, and it brought temporary sanity. At least
it helped me realize I was tired.

I came to a little brook, and, instead of crossing the foot bridge, I
turned and followed the brook upstream. It led through groves of trees
and presently I found a little clearing where the bank sloped gently
and was covered with soft moss. At the water's edge, the bank and a
rock formation made a kind of overhanging ledge and I sat on this a
while and stared at the water, liquid silver, tumbling below.

Finally I moved up the bank a little, wrapped my cloak around me and
lay down. I looked at the stars. I wondered which one might be Mars.
It was red, I'd heard, but I saw nothing like that. Probably it wasn't
visible now. I got to thinking about Mars, and I got to thinking about
the prison colony there, and then I got to thinking about the primitive
life, and then free-mating.

That made me think of Lara, and her firm body and long, clean limbs and
blonde hair and mouse-colored eyes.

I drifted off to sleep. Lara stayed with me; she stepped into my
dream. It was a wonderful dream. Her voice, when she broke from
standard, was thrilling and delicious. It was linked with the tumbling
of the brook somehow. She was warm and vibrant in my arms. She was
alive, so alive. She was all movement.

We were laughing together and....

       *       *       *       *       *

I awoke to the sound of shooting.

The moon had risen and the broad glades were silver green and the trees
were casting shadows. Voices were barking back and forth within the
woods.

"Over that way!" called one.

"Cut 'em off! Cut 'em off!" yelled another.

A man and woman, both entirely naked, both speckled with wounds and
bruises, all standard in questioning, stumbled into the clearing. Their
eyes were wild, big for their faces. They were thin. They gasped for
breath. They looked around them, rats in mazes, and then saw me.

They drew back.

"This way!" called a voice from the wood.

Another shot rang out.

I stared at the man and woman, still too surprised to know what to do
or say.

They were the two prisoners I had seen in the jetcopter on my way to
Center One.


IV

Maybe I was not quite awake. Maybe I was not really bright, though
everybody thinks of himself as bright, I suppose. Maybe it was
everything that had happened since the renumbering. Maybe I was fed up
and maybe something about the quiet woods called out: _Rebel! Rebel!_

I don't know.

I pointed to the brook, the overhanging bank, and said, "In there!
Quick!"

They scuttled. They passed me and looked at me half-thankfully,
half-fearfully.

The voices came nearer.

"Come on! This way! They can't get far!"

I wrapped myself in my cloak and sat down and pretended to be gazing at
the stars.

A moment later three Deacons burst upon the clearing. I turned slowly,
and stared at them, showing mild artificial surprise. Handsome, burly
fellows. The one in the middle was a positive Apollo; I was sure that
he waved his hair. He glared at me.

"You," he said.

"Me?"

"Yes, you. What are you doing here?"

I said, "I'm sitting here."

"What for?"

"The night air. To study the stars. Get a change of scene." I shrugged.

Apollo stepped forward and held out his hand. "Your tag."

This was it. When he saw my four letter name he'd really start working
on me. I unsnapped the tag from my neck band and handed it to him.

He looked at it, but didn't change expression. The Deacons are
well-trained. He looked up again. "N/P, eh?"

"Yes."

"And you belong in Center Four."

"Yes."

"Explain."

I did. Or tried to. Things were roiling around inside me, keeping me
from thinking clearly. Once, as I talked, I thought I heard movement
under the bank, but the Deacons didn't seem to notice anything. I tried
to tell them of my troubles.

There was no sympathy in their eyes.

Apollo said, "See anybody pass by here?"

"Pass by?" I hoped my look was innocent. "Who?"

"Two fugitives. Nonconforms. Escaped during interview. Got the force
screen turned off somehow--must have had spies helping them. You didn't
see them, eh?"

I shook my head. "I haven't seen anyone for several hours."

       *       *       *       *       *

Apollo and his two friends traded glances. The one on the right was
bull-necked and red-headed; the one on the left had a neck and nose
like a crane. It was the one on the left who suddenly smiled. Not a
pleasant smile. He stepped up to Apollo and whispered something in his
ear. Then Apollo smiled and turned to me again.

"You're _sure_ you haven't seen anyone."

He knew something. I didn't know what, but it was too late to back out
now. I said, "Of course I'm sure."

Apollo kept his eyes on me, hard, flat, stony, and held out his hand
to the cranelike Deacon. "Your light," he said. The other handed it to
him. Apollo flashed it on the ground. It came to rest upon unmistakable
footprints in the soft moss. They led to the bank.

I could be certain of arrest, and one of their little interviews now. I
really had nothing to lose. Nothing that wasn't already lost--

"Run!" I shouted at the top of my lungs. "They're coming!"

There was a rustling under the bank.

I leaped at Apollo. I leaped hard, with my feet solid, pushing me
forward. My shoulder hit him in the midriff. He went down. I scrambled
over him and jammed my thumb into his shoulder. He screamed.

There was a buzzing sound and the smell of burned flesh, and a tenth of
a second later I felt pain. One of the others had jammed his electric
truncheon into the small of my back. It bored in, it burned, and I
writhed and yelled. I couldn't help it. I rolled over.

Someone was kicking at me. I grabbed his leg and pulled him down and
when he struck the ground I twisted. Another shape blurred toward
me--Apollo, recovered and on his feet again. Then buzzing, burned
flesh, and the pain this time in the back of my neck. My head swirled.
I thrashed, trying to get away. Get away where? That made not much
difference. Away, that was all.

The buzzing continued. It was through my flesh now and touching the
spine. It would destroy the nerves in a moment. I would be dead--or
even worse, a limp cripple, a rag doll.

The smell of roasted flesh and hair was a thick, choking, sickening
fog of decay. I couldn't breathe. There was blackness, swirling and
concentric, closing in.

I think one of them kicked me in the groin before I lost consciousness.

I couldn't be sure. I couldn't be sure of anything.

       *       *       *       *       *

Coming out. Sound before sight and I heard the low voices. My eyes were
already open. Nebulous shapes, now sharpening.

I was in a small room with gleaming metal walls and I was on my back on
a sort of table. Three men were in the room with me, standing over me.
Apollo ... the bull-necked man ... the man with the nose like a crane.

Apollo was smiling. Pour water over that smile and immediately a film
of ice would form.

"A spy," said Apollo, looking into my open eyes. "Another damn spy."

I shook my head. Ridiculous, but that's what I did. The movement pulled
at the wound in the back of my neck and sharp pain, starting there,
shot through my whole body. I grimaced and groaned.

Apollo laughed, then suddenly brought his club hard across my face. My
cheekbone seemed to make a crunching sound.

"A spy, a damned spy," said Apollo.

"We got a confession for you to sign," said the Crane.

Apollo said, "Shut up. Not yet. We got to interview him first."

"Look," I said, trying to lift my head, trying to rise upon my elbows,
"call your chief. Call anybody like that. I can explain this whole
thing. It's a long story--"

       *       *       *       *       *

He hit me again across the other cheekbone.

Shall I describe the next timeless endless hour? All the details? I
don't remember all of them, of course, just the moments of sharpest
pain that lifted me from the daze. Just the sound of my own screaming
at times, and the helpless dryness of my own throat, and the sounds
that kept coming from it even when the vocal cords were numb.

Apollo and his pals had fun.

There were the electric clubs. They become so hot at the tip that they
will burn through an inch of pine in a couple of seconds. They go even
quicker through flesh. After a while the smoke of my own burning flesh
was thick in the room, and we all choked a little on it.

They had more fun with their fists, though. They didn't burn me in the
worst places. They saved them for their fists and hands.

After a while I couldn't scream. Only a hoarse, helpless, retching
sound came out whenever I opened my mouth.

Did I hear their voices then? I couldn't be sure whether I heard them
speak, or whether I dreamed that they spoke.

"He can't feel it any more now." That was Apollo's voice.

"Wake him up again," said the Crane. "Give him a shot."

"Oh, hell, I'm hungry," said Apollo.

"All right," said the Crane, "let's go get something to eat. We can
always come back again."

Blackness, sweet blackness, and the sense of floating among the stars.
Nothingness. It was exquisite now ... even the touch of agony that
still seeped through was exquisite.

How much of this, I don't know.

I heard a voice again, and at first I thought my precious blackness was
leaving me. I struggled to keep it. I grasped out, clutching with my
mind.

"_Don't give up ... we are coming...._"

It was _her_ voice. The low, seductive voice of my dreams. But I didn't
want to hear it now; this was the last thing I wanted to hear. This
voice had brought me here, and I never wanted to hear it again.

"_No matter what they say ... no matter what they offer you or tell
you ... don't give up._"

I fought it off. I drove it away by sheer mind-power. Either that or
it stopped of itself. I didn't know and didn't care; all I wanted was
peace and blackness again if I could find it.

And then, after a while, I was awake, truly awake, and I knew this
because I ached and burned all over. I could scarcely move. I lay on
the tablelike thing and stared at the gleaming metal ceiling, not
really seeing it.

"How do you feel?" said somebody.

       *       *       *       *       *

I turned my head. The somebody was sitting beside me. He was a man of
about fifty, thick-set and gray-haired with skin that looked like fine
porcelain. His eyes were blue and they seemed able, intelligent. He was
not exactly smiling, but his expression was pleasant. Poised--that was
the word. Here was a man who would quietly control things wherever he
would go.

I said, "Lousy. And you?"

Ghost of a smile. "Sorry you had to go through it. We pick the Deacons
because they're sadistically inclined. That makes for efficiency in the
long run. Some people suffer, of course, but it's for the common good."

I didn't say anything. If I had, it would have been insulting,
unreasonable, blasphemous, obscene and treasonable. So I didn't say
anything. I just kept staring at him.

He continued to smile. "I'm N-J-K-F one seven seven three four nine,
Chief of the Office of Psychological Adjustment. I'm usually simply
Chief. I want you to consider me your friend--within the limits of
State good, that is."

I still didn't say anything.

"Yours is quite a case, and of course I understand it. I think I had
a quick insight into it the moment I spotted the arrest report on
you. You're really lucky I happened to go through the arrest reports
a little while ago, and got to you before the three Deacons who
interviewed you returned. They were going to interview you some more."

"Yes. I'm very lucky." My voice was flat, lifeless.

He leaned back easily in the chair. For all that he was thick-set, he
was graceful. He was handsome. His head, and deep, pleasant voice, and
the cut of his porcelain features all were handsome. Trust in me,
said this handsomeness, I am a father to all men.

"Naturally, we want to excuse your actions, and all the infractions
you have committed in your rather desperate struggle for escape from
your situation. Of course we'll have to re-evaluate your Emotional
Adjustment Category. It must be very low by now. And I think I'll be
able to assign a new name to you, and have it justify."

Funny, here was the thing I'd sought and fought for, and now I had it,
and this was the end of the long fight, and I didn't feel triumphant at
all. I didn't even feel pleased. Funny.

The chief said, "You can undoubtedly find a post suitable to a lower
E.A.C. You can work your way up again. At least you'll be on productive
status and have all the privileges that go with it."

"Yes," I said. "Yes, I suppose so."

"So there's really nothing to worry about now, is there?"

"No, I suppose not."

"There's just one little thing I'd like to go into before I take the
steps necessary to get you on your feet again." Even his magnificent
poise couldn't conceal the feather touch of slyness then.

"One little thing?" I asked.

       *       *       *       *       *

The pain was with me again. My body wasn't flesh; it was all raw,
clinging pain.

"We'll have to know who started you on your little quest. Who
influenced you to try to have your name changed."

I said, "I don't understand what you're talking about."

He looked patient, smilingly patient. "It's rather obvious, you know.
You wouldn't have acted as you did purely on your own impulses. I know
that, because I cybed for your master file after I saw the report
of arrest. Up until two days ago, your actions have always been
satisfactorily conformal. A man doesn't change overnight like that
without some sort of external influence."

"But there wasn't any," I protested. "I mean, nobody told me to do
anything. Nobody real."

He chuckled. "Come now, you don't expect me to believe that, do you?
After all, I deal with cases like this quite often. You're not the
only one who has tried to upset the efficiency of the State. There's
a pattern in these things, my friend. Almost invariably we find that
a deliberate influence has gone to work on our infractor. There's a
dangerous, organized underground movement that spends its time bringing
these things about. One of its members unquestionably contacted you,
suggested that you take the steps you have taken. Now, then, who was
it?"

"Nobody." I looked blank because I felt blank.

The Chief sighed. "You've changed more than I thought. Probably you're
emotionally angry with the State now, after that little interview
with the Deacons. That's understandable. But you'll have to come back
to your senses. Let's put it this way, old man. _If I don't get this
information from you right now, the Deacons will._"

"Listen," I said, "what I'm telling you is the truth. There was nobody
who told me to do anything. There was--well, there was a kind of voice
that used to come into my dreams. A woman's voice. It suggested, in my
dreams, that I go ahead and try to get my name changed. That's all."

He wasn't smiling any more. "Do you really expect me to believe that?"

"It's the truth, I tell you. It's the truth!"

"Perhaps whoever influenced you did it subtly. Perhaps you never even
realized it. Think back now. Who helped you? Who departed from standard
and gave you any kind of aid?"

Realization came like a cold wash. There had been help. Lara. She had
gone out of her way back there in N. & I. She had been warm and real
and she had dropped the mask of efficiency. Could it have been with a
purpose? No matter. Guilty or innocent, if I mentioned her name, she
would be interviewed. I didn't want that to happen to Lara. I shook my
head and said, "No one helped me. I did it all myself. You've got to
believe that."

"I don't," said the Chief, and got up. He looked at me for just a
moment before he turned away. He said, "The boys will be able to have
their fun, after all. I suppose it's just as well. It keeps their
morale up to be able to interview somebody once in a while."

"No! You can't! You can't send them in here again!" I shouted, without
meaning to. I struggled to rise and found that I was strapped to the
table. "No! No!"

He was standing at the doorway to the room. He held a key-box
oscillator in his hand and I knew that a force screen held me in the
cubicle here, and that without a key-box I could beat my head forever
against that invisible barrier and never pass through that doorway. He
said, "I'll give you one hour to decide. I'll be back. I'll ask you if
you're ready to talk. If you aren't--well, you'll talk to the Deacons
instead of me."

The key-box hummed and he walked through the doorway and turned and
disappeared.

I stared after him and fought back my sudden nausea.


V

How long, then, lying there before a key-box hummed again? I didn't
know. My time sense had been dulled. Even the pain was dull now; it was
something that had always existed.

I looked at the shining ceiling.

The glowlights began to dim and I supposed that since my arrest in the
park another day had passed.

Most of all, I wondered. Something had happened to me, something that
I could almost feel as a physical change, but I didn't know quite what
it was. I knew its results. I knew that I was no longer standard, no
longer conformal, no longer well-behaved and moral and an efficient,
useful citizen of the State. I hated the State. I hated all States. I
hate all efficiency and common sense and hate.

It suddenly came to me that I didn't care whether I was in Southem or
Northem, or which of them ruled the world.

I lay there.

And presently a key-box hummed and I didn't even look that way. The
stink of my own burning flesh still clung to my nostrils, the dull pain
was still with me, but I didn't care. It was too much. When horror
becomes too great, it stops being horror. The mind is smart. It doesn't
believe; it doesn't register. The curve of sensation flattens out,
stops, almost.

When such horror looms, you go on doing whatever you are doing.

I was lying there, so I went on lying there.

"Don't speak," whispered a voice. "Don't ask questions."

Something fumbled at the straps. I turned my head, and two people were
in the room. They were thin, and their eyes were overlarge and they
were naked and covered with bruises. The fugitives of the park last
night!

"What are you doing here?"

Finger to the lips. That was the man. He was taking the straps from my
legs. The woman was releasing my arms and shoulders.

"But--"

"Sh!" That was the woman.

In a moment they had me free. I started, confidently, to rise, and the
pain streaked through me like a powder rocket. They helped me. I stood
there, amazed that I could stand. They helped me go forward. I took
several dizzy steps, and after that it wasn't as bad. We moved through
the doorway; there was no force screen. The man held the key-box. He
pressed it as we moved away, to bring the force screen into place once
more.

I said, "Where are we--?"

I was shushed again. We went on through the corridors. Dead oyster
white corridors. I walked as through a sea of marshmallow. Time sense
was gone again and we were pushing on and on and there was no end in
sight and we had already forgotten the beginning.

We took an automatic shaft to another level and walked more corridors.

       *       *       *       *       *

Once we passed an opening and tunnelcars filled with people roared
past. I had a flash glimpse of them. They sat there staring straight
ahead, wearing the efficient expressions of good workers. State corpses.

Suddenly we emerged into the dark. It was the dark of night, but after
the tunnels it was practically sunrise. The air was clean--no, it was
not actually as clean as the conditioned air below. It was more than
clean. It was _alive_.

We were on the edge of a great concrete paved area. About a hundred
yards ahead, a massive, shining, fat needle rose into the air, and
squatted there against the stars. It was a spaceship in its launching
cradle. There were low buildings near it, a few floodlights, and people
standing around. It took a moment to realize that the men walking up
and down and along the groups of people, the men with rifles on their
shoulders, were guards.

"Luck, now, that's all we need. A little luck," said the thin man
beside me. It was the first time I had heard his voice. It was a low
voice; he spoke with emotion. It was not approved standard.

The woman moved beside him and put her hand upon his arm.

I said, "May I talk now?"

He turned to me, smiling. The smile had something of that sadness I had
first noticed when he sat a prisoner in the jetcopter. "You want an
explanation, don't you? Of course you do. But I'm afraid I can't tell
you very much, except that we were sent to get you."

"Sent? By whom? How did you have a key-box? And--"

He laughed. "Wait, one question at a time. I was a force screen
technician before--before we were arrested. Cells are the same
everywhere. I know how to short the screens out from the inside; it's
troublesome, but it can be done. That's how we escaped the first
time. Then they discovered we were gone, chased us, and _you_ gave
us our second chance. We came here to the rendezvous. There were six
here, including our elected leader. When we told the leader what had
happened, she arranged for us to return, find you, and help you escape.
It wasn't any problem to lift a key-box from the rack where they're
usually kept."

       *       *       *       *       *

I felt as though I had been put upon the end of a huge oscillating
spring. I said, "The leader? She?"

"You'll meet her," he said. "After blastoff you'll meet her. Right now
our problem is to slip in among those prisoners without being seen."

"Among the _prisoners_?"

"Haven't time to explain more. You'll have to trust us. Unless you want
to stay here and have the Deacons hunt you till they find you."

He was right: wherever I was going, I had to go. I couldn't go back
now. Ever. I said, "I trust you. Let's go."

Slipping in wasn't really difficult. There were only one or two guards
for each group of prisoners, and they were looking for someone to
escape, not join their flock. Some of the prisoners were dressed, some
naked. Some looked bruised and beaten; some did not. It all depended on
whether they had been questioned. They all looked dull-eyed, resigned.
They paid remarkably little attention as we moved in among them, and
stood there.

       *       *       *       *       *

The guards began to call out orders presently and the groups shuffled
forward, and then single lines moved up the ramp and into the
spaceship. The thin man and his woman were still with me. "They don't
bother to count," he whispered, "so we won't be noticed."

I wanted to ask him other questions, but we were divided into groups
and they weren't in mine.

Minutes later I found myself in the vast hull, sitting on one of the
tiers that hold the seats vertical when the ship is tail-based for
blastoff. It was very dim here and I couldn't readily make out the
faces of the people on the same tier with me.

A loudspeaker came to life; a deep, impersonal voice. "Fasten your
webbings carefully!"

I did that and heard the rustling sounds about me as the others did it,
too.

"Stand by for blastoff!"

There was a dead pause, then a sudden low throbbing roar and the
feeling of life in the floor plates and the bulkheads. I felt the
slightest weight of pressure against the seat. The seat began to tilt
slightly.

Suddenly a soft voice on my left spoke: "_We're on our way. They can't
stop us now, can they?_"

It was the same low, provocative woman's voice that I had heard in my
dreams!

I whirled my head. I could see only the shape of flowing hair, no
features. "Who are you?"

She laughed. "No wonder you don't recognize me. The natural voice is
different than approved standard, isn't it? Listen. Do you remember
this?" The head cocked to one side and a crisp, formal voice came out.
"Information you desire is in Bank 29."

"Lara!" I said. I pushed toward her, but the webbing held me back.

"Yes. It's I. And we're together now and we'll have a long, long time
to find out about each other. It's ten weeks to Mars."

       *       *       *       *       *

I ran my hand over my forehead. "I don't get it. I don't get any of it.
Your voice--I mean your real voice, not the standard one--I dreamed
about it, and--"

"I know." I could see her nod. "It wasn't a dream, though. I _was_
talking to you. Each time. That was the way we planned it from the
beginning."

"Talking to me? But--but _how_? Through the sleep-learner?"

"No, we'd never have been able to arrange that. It was through your
identity tag, which would almost always be in contact with your skin
when you slept. It has a microscopic electrical circuit, both between
its metal halves and painted on its surface. The same principle as the
sleep-learner, tactile induction, and, of course, a highly selective
one-channel receiver. All I needed to do was put my transmitter on that
same frequency."

I shook my head. "I follow, I guess, but I'm still baffled. Why all
this? When did--"

"Wait for me to finish," she said. "We've been organized and
underground, just as the Deacons suspect, for some time. One of our
members worked on the identity tags and, when renumbering came about,
it was a perfect opportunity to plant the receivers. We picked our
people carefully. We picked doctors and hydroponic experts and chemists
and rocket pilots--and we picked you because of your knowledge of space
drive theory. Someday we'll go on to the stars; someday you'll help us
do that. Anyway, all these people we have picked--or most of them--are
joining us on Mars. There's where mankind will begin again while
Northem and Southem sit upon earth and glare at each other across the
equator and wait for war."

"But Mars--there's an equator there, too."

She laughed. "Northem and Southem prisoners there mingle all the time.
There aren't enough guards to notice it, or stop it if they did notice
it. There have even been hundreds of intermarriages."

"Marriages? You mean like the pre-atomics?"

"Exactly. But we'll get to that later. We needed you for our colony,
only it wasn't likely that you'd infract all by yourself. You were
too standard, too adjusted. We had to give you something to shake you
out of it, to make you realize that the security of the State was not
security, but slavery. And so one of our members in the renumbering
bureau arranged for you to have that four letter word of yours for
a name. One thing led to another, then, not always exactly as we'd
planned it, but always in the same general direction. Our whole plan
nearly failed when the Deacons nabbed you in the park. Fortunately,
I'd come along to stow away on this trip, and I sent those others back
after you."

"But what if I'd actually managed to get my name changed?"

       *       *       *       *       *

The ship was swaying now, balanced on its rocket trail. The
acceleration was increasing. The seat was swinging back. The roar was
becoming louder.

"It was unlikely enough to take a chance on it. We felt at the very
least you'd be kept on N/P status and then we could work on you some
more until you infracted, and got sent to Marscol as a nonconform.
Funny, that seems a terrible fate to most people. Actually, it's the
only escape. From what I hear of Mars we'll like it there."

I was recovering a little now and I dared to say, "If you're there,
too, I'll like it. I know that."

"Oh, you'll like other things. You'll like everything. And on Mars
they'll call you by your present name if you wish, and no one will be
at all shocked by it." There was a slight pause and then she said, "In
fact, it's a very nice name. I--I wouldn't mind having it myself."

"Is that what the pre-atomics called a proposal?"

She laughed. "I'm not sure. But at least we have ten weeks to talk it
over--"

And then the acceleration pressed hard and the gray curtain began to
come, and I knew that when it was lifted we would be on our way through
space. I thought in that moment of the name that had brought all this
about--the unspeakable four letter word that no conformist would ever
dare voice, or even think of; the word, the dangerous word inimical to
all that the warring, efficient State meant and stood for.

The word, I realized, that eventually would destroy all that.

I dared to say it now. I spelled it out first, and then I pronounced
it. Just loud enough for Lara to hear above the growing roar.
"L-O-V-E," I said. "Love."

I heard Lara repeat it before the momentary blackout came.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of I, the Unspeakable, by Walt Sheldon

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK I, THE UNSPEAKABLE ***

***** This file should be named 51210.txt or 51210.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/2/1/51210/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
