The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Sense of Wonder, by Milton Lesser

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Sense of Wonder

Author: Milton Lesser

Release Date: February 24, 2016 [EBook #51296]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SENSE OF WONDER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                          The Sense of Wonder

                           By MILTON LESSER

                    Illustrated by HARRY ROSENBAUM

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                Galaxy Science Fiction September 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




             When nobody aboard ship remembers where it's
             going, how can they tell when it has arrived?


Every day for a week now, Rikud had come to the viewport to watch
the great changeless sweep of space. He could not quite explain the
feelings within him; they were so alien, so unnatural. But ever since
the engines somewhere in the rear of the world had changed their tone,
from the steady whining Rikud had heard all twenty-five years of his
life, to the sullen roar that came to his ears now, the feelings had
grown.

If anyone else had noticed the change, he failed to mention it. This
disturbed Rikud, although he could not tell why. And, because he had
realized this odd difference in himself, he kept it locked up inside
him.

Today, space looked somehow different. The stars--it was a meaningless
concept to Rikud, but that was what everyone called the bright
pinpoints of light on the black backdrop in the viewport--were not
apparent in the speckled profusion Rikud had always known. Instead,
there was more of the blackness, and one very bright star set apart
by itself in the middle of the viewport.

If he had understood the term, Rikud would have told himself this was
odd. His head ached with the half-born thought. It was--it was--what
was it?

Someone was clomping up the companionway behind Rikud. He turned and
greeted gray-haired old Chuls.

"In five more years," the older man chided, "you'll be ready to sire
children. And all you can do in the meantime is gaze out at the stars."

Rikud knew he should be exercising now, or bathing in the rays of the
health-lamps. It had never occurred to him that he didn't feel like it;
he just didn't, without comprehending.

Chuls' reminder fostered uneasiness. Often Rikud had dreamed of the
time he would be thirty and a father. Whom would the Calculator select
as his mate? The first time this idea had occurred to him, Rikud
ignored it. But it came again, and each time it left him with a feeling
he could not explain. Why should he think thoughts that no other man
had? Why should he think he was thinking such thoughts, when it always
embroiled him in a hopeless, infinite confusion that left him with a
headache?

Chuls said, "It is time for my bath in the health-rays. I saw you here
and knew it was your time, too...."

His voice trailed off. Rikud knew that something which he could not
explain had entered the elder man's head for a moment, but it had
departed almost before Chuls knew of its existence.

"I'll go with you," Rikud told him.

       *       *       *       *       *

A hardly perceptible purple glow pervaded the air in the room of the
health-rays. Perhaps two score men lay about, naked, under the ray
tubes. Chuls stripped himself and selected the space under a vacant
tube. Rikud, for his part, wanted to get back to the viewport and watch
the one new bright star. He had the distinct notion it was growing
larger every moment. He turned to go, but the door clicked shut and a
metallic voice said. "Fifteen minutes under the tubes, please."

Rikud muttered to himself and undressed. The world had begun to annoy
him. Now why shouldn't a man be permitted to do what he wanted, when
he wanted to do it? _There_ was a strange thought, and Rikud's brain
whirled once more down the tortuous course of half-formed questions and
unsatisfactory answers.

He had even wondered what it was like to get hurt. No one ever got
hurt. Once, here in this same ray room, he had had the impulse to hurl
himself head-first against the wall, just to see what would happen.
But something soft had cushioned the impact--something which had come
into being just for the moment and then abruptly passed into non-being
again, something which was as impalpable as air.

Rikud had been stopped in this action, although there was no real
authority to stop him. This puzzled him, because somehow he felt that
there should have been authority. A long time ago the reading machine
in the library had told him of the elders--a meaningless term--who had
governed the world. They told you to do something and you did it, but
that was silly, because now no one told you to do anything. You only
listened to the buzzer.

And Rikud could remember the rest of what the reading machine had said.
There had been a revolt--again a term without any real meaning, a term
that could have no reality outside of the reading machine--and the
elders were overthrown. Here Rikud had been lost utterly. The people
had decided that they did not know where they were going, or why, and
that it was unfair that the elders alone had this authority. They were
born and they lived and they died as the elders directed, like little
cogs in a great machine. Much of this Rikud could not understand, but
he knew enough to realize that the reading machine had sided with the
people against the elders, and it said the people had won.

Now in the health room, Rikud felt a warmth in the rays. Grudgingly, he
had to admit to himself that it was not unpleasant. He could see the
look of easy contentment on Chuls' face as the rays fanned down upon
him, bathing his old body in a forgotten magic which, many generations
before Rikud's time, had negated the necessity for a knowledge of
medicine. But when, in another ten years, Chuls would perish of old
age, the rays would no longer suffice. Nothing would, for Chuls. Rikud
often thought of his own death, still seventy-five years in the future,
not without a sense of alarm. Yet old Chuls seemed heedless, with only
a decade to go.

Under the tube at Rikud's left lay Crifer. The man was short and heavy
through the shoulders and chest, and he had a lame foot. Every time
Rikud looked at that foot, it was with a sense of satisfaction. True,
this was the only case of its kind, the exception to the rule, but it
proved the world was not perfect. Rikud was guiltily glad when he saw
Crifer limp.

But, if anyone else saw it, he never said a word. Not even Crifer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now Crifer said, "I've been reading again, Rikud."

"Yes?" Almost no one read any more, and the library was heavy with the
smell of dust. Reading represented initiative on the part of Crifer; it
meant that, in the two unoccupied hours before sleep, he went to the
library and listened to the reading machine. Everyone else simply sat
about and talked. That was the custom. Everyone did it.

But if he wasn't reading himself, Rikud usually went to sleep. All the
people ever talked about was what they had done during the day, and it
was always the same.

"Yes," said Crifer. "I found a book about the stars. They're also
called astronomy, I think."

This was a new thought to Rikud, and he propped his head up on one
elbow. "What did you find out?"

"That's about all. They're just called astronomy, I think."

"Well, where's the book?" Rikud would read it tomorrow.

"I left it in the library. You can find several of them under
'astronomy,' with a cross-reference under 'stars.' They're synonymous
terms."

"You know," Rikud said, sitting up now, "the stars in the viewport are
changing."

"Changing?" Crifer questioned the fuzzy concept as much as he
questioned what it might mean in this particular case.

"Yes, there are less of them, and one is bigger and brighter than the
others."

"Astronomy says some stars are variable," Crifer offered, but Rikud
knew his lame-footed companion understood the word no better than he
did.

Over on Rikud's right, Chuls began to dress. "Variability," he told
them, "is a contradictory term. Nothing is variable. It can't be."

"I'm only saying what I read in the book," Crifer protested mildly.

"Well, it's wrong. Variability and change are two words without
meaning."

"People grow old," Rikud suggested.

A buzzer signified that his fifteen minutes under the rays were up, and
Chuls said, "It's almost time for me to eat."

Rikud frowned. Chuls hadn't even seen the connection between the two
concepts, yet it was so clear. Or was it? He had had it a moment ago,
but now it faded, and change and old were just two words.

His own buzzer sounded a moment later, and it was with a strange
feeling of elation that he dressed and made his way back to the
viewport. When he passed the door which led to the women's half of the
world, however, he paused. He wanted to open that door and see a woman.
He had been told about them and he had seen pictures, and he dimly
remembered his childhood among women. But his feelings had changed;
this was different. Again there were inexplicable feelings--strange
channelings of Rikud's energy in new and confusing directions.

He shrugged and reserved the thought for later. He wanted to see the
stars again.

       *       *       *       *       *

The view had changed, and the strangeness of it made Rikud's pulses
leap with excitement. All the stars were paler now than before, and
where Rikud had seen the one bright central star, he now saw a globe of
light, white with a tinge of blue in it, and so bright that it hurt his
eyes to look.

Yes, hurt! Rikud looked and looked until his eyes teared and he had to
turn away. Here was an unknown factor which the perfect world failed
to control. But how could a star change into a blinking blue-white
globe--if, indeed, that was the star Rikud had seen earlier? There
was that word change again. Didn't it have something to do with age?
Rikud couldn't remember, and he suddenly wished he could read Crifer's
book on astronomy, which meant the same as stars. Except that it was
variable, which was like change, being tied up somehow with age.

Presently Rikud became aware that his eyes were not tearing any longer,
and he turned to look at the viewport. What he saw now was so new that
he couldn't at first accept it. Instead, he blinked and rubbed his
eyes, sure that the ball of blue-white fire somehow had damaged them.
But the new view persisted.

Of stars there were few, and of the blackness, almost nothing. Gone,
too, was the burning globe. Something loomed there in the port, so huge
that it spread out over almost the entire surface. Something big and
round, all grays and greens and browns, and something for which Rikud
had no name.

A few moments more, and Rikud no longer could see the sphere. A section
of it had expanded outward and assumed the rectangular shape of the
viewport, and its size as well. It seemed neatly sheered down the
middle, so that on one side Rikud saw an expanse of brown and green,
and on the other, blue.

Startled, Rikud leaped back. The sullen roar in the rear of the world
had ceased abruptly. Instead an ominous silence, broken at regular
intervals by a sharp booming.

Change--

"Won't you eat, Rikud?" Chuls called from somewhere down below.

"Damn the man," Rikud thought. Then aloud: "Yes, I'll eat. Later."

"It's time...." Chuls' voice trailed off again, impotently.

But Rikud forgot the old man completely. A new idea occurred to him,
and for a while he struggled with it. What he saw--what he had always
seen, except that now there was the added factor of change--perhaps did
not exist _in_ the viewport.

Maybe it existed _through_ the viewport.

That was maddening. Rikud turned again to the port, where he could see
nothing but an obscuring cloud of white vapor, murky, swirling, more
confusing than ever.

"Chuls," he called, remembering, "come here."

"I am here," said a voice at his elbow.

Rikud whirled on the little figure and pointed to the swirling cloud of
vapor. "What do you see?"

Chuls looked. "The viewport, of course."

"What else?"

"Else? Nothing."

Anger welled up inside Rikud. "All right," he said, "listen. What do
you hear?"

"Broom, brroom, brrroom!" Chuls imitated the intermittent blasting of
the engines. "I'm hungry, Rikud."

The old man turned and strode off down the corridor toward the dining
room, and Rikud was glad to be alone once more.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now the vapor had departed, except for a few tenuous whisps. For a
moment Rikud thought he could see the gardens rearward in the world.
But that was silly. What were the gardens doing in the viewport? And
besides, Rikud had the distinct feeling that here was something far
vaster than the gardens, although all of it existed in the viewport
which was no wider than the length of his body. The gardens, moreover,
did not jump and dance before his eyes the way the viewport gardens
did. Nor did they spin. Nor did the trees grow larger with every jolt.

Rikud sat down hard. He blinked.

The world had come to rest on the garden of the viewport.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a whole week that view did not change, and Rikud had come to accept
it as fact. There--through the viewport and in it--was a garden. A
garden larger than the entire world, a garden of plants which Rikud had
never seen before, although he had always liked to stroll through the
world's garden and he had come to know every plant well. Nevertheless,
it was a garden.

He told Chuls, but Chuls had responded, "It is the viewport."

Crifer, on the other hand, wasn't so sure. "It looks like the garden,"
he admitted to Rikud. "But why should the garden be in the viewport?"

Somehow, Rikud knew this question for a healthy sign. But he could
not tell them of his most amazing thought of all. The change in the
viewport could mean only one thing. The world had been walking--the
word seemed all wrong to Rikud, but he could think of no other, unless
it were running. The world had been walking somewhere. That somewhere
was the garden and the world had arrived.

"It is an old picture of the garden," Chuls suggested, "and the plants
are different."

"Then they've changed?"

"No, merely different."

"Well, what about the viewport? _It_ changed. Where are the stars?
Where are they, Chuls, if it did not change?"

"The stars come out at night."

"So there is a change from day to night!"

"I didn't say that. The stars simply shine at night. Why should they
shine during the day when the world wants them to shine only at night?"

"Once they shone all the time."

"Naturally," said Crifer, becoming interested. "They are variable."

       *       *       *       *       *

Rikud regretted that he never had had the chance to read that book on
astronomy. He hadn't been reading too much lately. The voice of the
reading machine had begun to bore him. He said, "Well, variable or not,
our whole perspective has changed."

And when Chuls looked away in disinterest, Rikud became angry. If only
the man would realize! If only anyone would realize! It all seemed so
obvious. If he, Rikud, walked from one part of the world to another,
it was with a purpose--to eat, or to sleep, or perhaps to bathe in the
health-rays. Now if the world had walked from--somewhere, through the
vast star-speckled darkness and to the great garden outside, this also
was purposeful. The world had arrived at the garden for a reason. But
if everyone lived as if the world still stood in blackness, how could
they find the nature of that purpose?

"I will eat," Chuls said, breaking Rikud's revery.

Damn the man, all he did was eat!

Yet he did have initiative after a sort. He knew when to eat. Because
he was hungry.

And Rikud, too, was hungry.

Differently.

       *       *       *       *       *

He had long wondered about the door in the back of the library, and
now, as Crifer sat cross-legged on one of the dusty tables, reading
machine and book on astronomy or stars in his lap, Rikud approached the
door.

"What's in here?" he demanded.

"It's a door, I think," said Crifer.

"I know, but what's beyond it?"

"Beyond it? Oh, you mean _through_ the door."

"Yes."

"Well," Crifer scratched his head, "I don't think anyone ever opened
it. It's only a door."

"I will," said Rikud.

"You will what?"

"Open it. Open the door and look inside."

A long pause. Then, "Can you do it?"

"I think so."

"You can't, probably. How can anyone go where no one has been before?
There's nothing. It just isn't. It's only a door, Rikud."

"No--" Rikud began, but the words faded off into a sharp intake of
breath. Rikud had turned the knob and pushed. The door opened silently,
and Crifer said, "Doors are variable, too, I think."

Rikud saw a small room, perhaps half a dozen paces across, at the other
end of which was another door, just like the first. Halfway across,
Rikud heard a voice not unlike that of the reading machine.

He missed the beginning, but then:

    --therefore, permit no unauthorized persons to go through this
    door. The machinery in the next room is your protection against the
    rigors of space. A thousand years from now, journey's end, you may
    have discarded it for something better--who knows? But if you have
    not, then here is your protection. As nearly as possible, this ship
    is a perfect, self-sustaining world. It is more than that: it is
    human-sustaining as well. Try to hurt yourself and the ship will
    not permit it--within limits, of course. But you can damage the
    ship, and to avoid any possibility of that, no unauthorized persons
    are to be permitted through this door--

Rikud gave the voice up as hopeless. There were too many confusing
words. What in the world was an unauthorized person? More interesting
than that, however, was the second door. Would it lead to another
voice? Rikud hoped that it wouldn't.

When he opened the door a strange new noise filled his ears, a gentle
humming, punctuated by a _throb-throb-throb_ which sounded not unlike
the booming of the engines last week, except that this new sound didn't
blast nearly so loudly against his eardrums. And what met Rikud's
eyes--he blinked and looked again, but it was still there--cogs and
gears and wheels and nameless things all strange and beautiful because
they shone with a luster unfamiliar to him.

"Odd," Rikud said aloud. Then he thought, "Now there's a good word, but
no one quite seems to know its meaning."

Odder still was the third door. Rikud suddenly thought there might
exist an endless succession of them, especially when the third one
opened on a bare tunnel which led to yet another door.

Only this one was different. In it Rikud saw the viewport. But how? The
viewport stood on the other end of the world. It did seem smaller, and,
although it looked out on the garden, Rikud sensed that the topography
was different. Then the garden extended even farther than he had
thought. It was endless, extending all the way to a ridge of mounds way
off in the distance.

And this door one could walk through, into the garden. Rikud put his
hand on the door, all the while watching the garden through the new
viewport. He began to turn the handle.

Then he trembled.

What would he do out in the garden?

He couldn't go alone. He'd die of the strangeness. It was a silly
thought; no one ever died of anything until he was a hundred. Rikud
couldn't fathom the rapid thumping of his heart. And Rikud's mouth felt
dry; he wanted to swallow, but couldn't.

Slowly, he took his hand off the door lever. He made his way back
through the tunnel and then through the room of machinery and finally
through the little room with the confusing voice to Crifer.

By the time he reached the lame-footed man, Rikud was running. He did
not dare once to look back. He stood shaking at Crifer's side, and
sweat covered him in a clammy film. He never wanted to look at the
garden again. Not when he knew there was a door through which he could
walk and then might find himself in the garden.

It was so big.

       *       *       *       *       *

Three or four days passed before Rikud calmed himself enough to
talk about his experience. When he did, only Crifer seemed at all
interested, yet the lame-footed man's mind was inadequate to cope with
the situation. He suggested that the viewport might also be variable
and Rikud found himself wishing that his friend had never read that
book on astronomy.

Chuls did not believe Rikud at all. "There are not that many doors in
the world," he said. "The library has a door and there is a door to the
women's quarters; in five years, the Calculator will send you through
that. But there are no others."

Chuls smiled an indulgent smile and Rikud came nearer to him. "Now, by
the world, there are two other doors!"

Rikud began to shout, and everyone looked at him queerly.

"What are you doing that for?" demanded Wilm, who was shorter even than
Crifer, but had no lame foot.

"Doing what?"

"Speaking so loudly when Chuls, who is close, obviously has no trouble
hearing you."

"Maybe yelling will make him understand."

Crifer hobbled about on his good foot, doing a meaningless little jig.
"Why don't we go see?" he suggested. Then, confused, he frowned.

"Well, I won't go," Chuls replied. "There's no reason to go. If Rikud
has been imagining things, why should I?"

"I imagined nothing. I'll show you--"

"You'll show me nothing because I won't go."

Rikud grabbed Chuls' blouse with his big fist. Then, startled by what
he did, his hands began to tremble. But he held on, and he tugged at
the blouse.

"Stop that," said the older man, mildly.

       *       *       *       *       *

Crifer hopped up and down. "Look what Rikud's doing! I don't know what
he's doing, but look. He's holding Chuls' blouse."

"Stop that," repeated Chuls, his face reddening.

"Only if you'll go with me." Rikud was panting.

Chuls tugged at his wrist. By this time a crowd had gathered. Some of
them watched Crifer jump up and down, but most of them watched Rikud
holding Chuls' blouse.

"I think I can do that," declared Wilm, clutching a fistful of Crifer's
shirt.

Presently, the members of the crowd had pretty well paired off, each
partner grabbing for his companion's blouse. They giggled and laughed
and some began to hop up and down as Crifer had done.

A buzzer sounded and automatically Rikud found himself releasing Chuls.

Chuls said, forgetting the incident completely, "Time to retire."

In a moment, the room was cleared. Rikud stood alone. He cleared his
throat and listened to the sound, all by itself in the stillness. What
would have happened if they hadn't retired? But they always did things
punctually like that, whenever the buzzer sounded. They ate with the
buzzer, bathed in the health-rays with it, slept with it.

What would they do if the buzzer stopped buzzing?

This frightened Rikud, although he didn't know why. He'd like it,
though. Maybe then he could take them outside with him to the big
garden of the two viewports. And then he wouldn't be afraid because he
could huddle close to them and he wouldn't be alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

Rikud heard the throbbing again as he stood in the room of the
machinery. For a long time he watched the wheels and cogs and gears
spinning and humming. He watched for he knew not how long. And then he
began to wonder. If he destroyed the wheels and the cogs and the gears,
would the buzzer stop? It probably would, because, as Rikud saw it, he
was clearly an "unauthorized person." He had heard the voice again
upon entering the room.

He found a metal rod, bright and shiny, three feet long and half as
wide as his arm. He tugged at it and it came loose from the wires that
held it in place. He hefted it carefully for a moment, and then he
swung the bar into the mass of metal. Each time he heard a grinding,
crashing sound. He looked as the gears and cogs and wheels crumbled
under his blows, shattered by the strength of his arm.

Almost casually he strode about the room, but his blows were not
casual. Soon his easy strides had given way to frenzied running. Rikud
smashed everything in sight.

When the lights winked out, he stopped. Anyway, by that time the room
was a shambles of twisted, broken metal. He laughed, softly at first,
but presently he was roaring, and the sound doubled and redoubled in
his ears because now the throbbing had stopped.

He opened the door and ran through the little corridor to the smaller
viewport. Outside he could see the stars, and, dimly, the terrain
beneath them. But everything was so dark that only the stars shone
clearly. All else was bathed in a shadow of unreality.

Rikud never wanted to do anything more than he wanted to open that
door. But his hands trembled too much when he touched it, and once,
when he pressed his face close against the viewport, there in the
darkness, something bright flashed briefly through the sky and was gone.

Whimpering, he fled.

       *       *       *       *       *

All around Rikud were darkness and hunger and thirst. The buzzer did
not sound because Rikud had silenced it forever. And no one went to
eat or drink. Rikud himself had fumbled through the blackness and the
whimpering to the dining room, his tongue dry and swollen, but the
smooth belt that flowed with water and with savory dishes did not run
any more. The machinery, Rikud realized, also was responsible for food.

Chuls said, over and over, "I'm hungry."

"We will eat and we will drink when the buzzer tells us," Wilm replied
confidently.

"It won't any more," Rikud said.

"What won't?"

"The buzzer will never sound again. I broke it."

Crifer growled. "I know. You shouldn't have done it. That was a bad
thing you did, Rikud."

"It was not bad. The world has moved through the blackness and the
stars and now we should go outside to live in the big garden there
beyond the viewport."

"That's ridiculous," Chuls said.

Even Crifer now was angry at Rikud. "He broke the buzzer and no one can
eat. I hate Rikud, I think."

There was a lot of noise in the darkness, and someone else said, "I
hate Rikud." Then everyone was saying it.

Rikud was sad. Soon he would die, because no one would go outside with
him and he could not go outside alone. In five more years he would have
had a woman, too. He wondered if it was dark and hungry in the women's
quarters. Did women eat?

Perhaps they ate plants. Once, in the garden, Rikud had broken off a
frond and tasted it. It had been bitter, but not unpleasant. Maybe the
plants in the viewport would even be better.

"We will not be hungry if we go outside," he said. "We can eat there."

"We can eat if the buzzer sounds, but it is broken," Chuls said dully.

Crifer shrilled, "Maybe it is only variable and will buzz again."

"No," Rikud assured him. "It won't."

"Then you broke it and I hate you," said Crifer. "We should break you,
too, to show you how it is to be broken."

"We must go outside--through the viewport." Rikud listened to the odd
gurgling sound his stomach made.

A hand reached out in the darkness and grabbed at his head. He heard
Crifer's voice. "I have Rikud's head." The voice was nasty, hostile.

Crifer, more than anyone, had been his friend. But now that he had
broken the machinery, Crifer was his enemy, because Crifer came nearer
to understanding the situation than anyone except Rikud.

The hand reached out again, and it struck Rikud hard across the face.
"I hit him! I hit him!"

Other hands reached out, and Rikud stumbled. He fell and then someone
was on top of him, and he struggled. He rolled and was up again, and
he did not like the sound of the angry voices. Someone said, "Let us
do to Rikud what he said he did to the machinery." Rikud ran. In the
darkness, his feet prodded many bodies. There were those who were too
weak to rise. Rikud, too, felt a strange light-headedness and a gnawing
hurt in his stomach. But it didn't matter. He heard the angry voices
and the feet pounding behind him, and he wanted only to get away.

It was dark and he was hungry and everyone who was strong enough to run
was chasing him, but every time he thought of the garden outside, and
how big it was, the darkness and the hunger and the people chasing him
were unimportant. It was so big that it would swallow him up completely
and positively.

He became sickly giddy thinking about it.

But if he didn't open the door and go into the garden outside, he would
die because he had no food and no water and his stomach gurgled and
grumbled and hurt. And everyone was chasing him.

He stumbled through the darkness and felt his way back to the library,
through the inner door and into the room with the voice--but the
voice didn't speak this time--through its door and into the place of
machinery. Behind him, he could hear the voices at the first door, and
he thought for a moment that no one would come after him. But he heard
Crifer yell something, and then feet pounding in the passage.

Rikud tripped over something and sprawled awkwardly across the floor.
He felt a sharp hurt in his head, and when he reached up to touch it
with his hands there in the darkness, his fingers came away wet.

He got up slowly and opened the next door. The voices behind him were
closer now. Light streamed in through the viewport. After the darkness,
it frightened Rikud and it made his eyes smart, and he could hear those
behind him retreating to a safe distance. But their voices were not
far away, and he knew they would come after him because they wanted to
break him.

Rikud looked out upon the garden and he trembled. Out there was life.
The garden stretched off in unthinkable immensity to the cluster of
low mounds against the bright blue which roofed the many plants. If
plants could live out there as they did within the world, then so could
people. Rikud and his people _should_. This was why the world had moved
across the darkness and the stars for all Rikud's lifetime and more.
But he was afraid.

He reached up and grasped the handle of the door and he saw that his
fingers were red with the wetness which had come from his hurt head.
Slowly he slipped to the cool floor--how his head was burning!--and for
a long time he lay there, thinking he would never rise again. Inside he
heard the voices again, and soon a foot and then another pounded on
the metal of the passage. He heard Crifer's voice louder than the rest:
"There is Rikud on the floor!"

Tugging at the handle of the door, Rikud pulled himself upright.
Something small and brown scurried across the other side of the
viewport and Rikud imagined it turned to look at him with two hideous
red eyes.

Rikud screamed and hurtled back through the corridor, and his face
was so terrible in the light streaming in through the viewport that
everyone fled before him. He stumbled again in the place of the
machinery, and down on his hands and knees he fondled the bits of metal
which he could see in the dim light through the open door.

"Where's the buzzer?" he sobbed. "I must find the buzzer."

Crifer's voice, from the darkness inside, said, "You broke it. You
broke it. And now we will break you--"

Rikud got up and ran. He reached the door again and then he slipped
down against it, exhausted. Behind him, the voices and the footsteps
came, and soon he saw Crifer's head peer in through the passageway.
Then there were others, and then they were walking toward him.

His head whirled and the viewport seemed to swim in a haze. Could it
be variable, as Crifer had suggested? He wondered if the scurrying
brown thing waited somewhere, and nausea struck at the pit of his
stomach. But if the plants could live out there and the scurrying thing
could live and that was why the world had moved through the blackness,
then so could he live out there, and Crifer and all the others....

So tightly did he grip the handle that his fingers began to hurt. And
his heart pounded hard and he felt the pulses leaping on either side of
his neck.

He stared out into the garden, and off into the distance, where the
blue-white globe which might have been a star stood just above the row
of mounds.

       *       *       *       *       *

Crifer was tugging at him, trying to pull him away from the door, and
someone was grabbing at his legs, trying to make him fall. He kicked
out and the hands let go, and then he turned the handle and shoved the
weight of his body with all his strength against the door.

It opened and he stepped outside into the warmth.

The air was fresh, fresher than any air Rikud had ever breathed. He
walked around aimlessly, touching the plants and bending down to feel
the floor, and sometimes he looked at the blue-white globe on the
horizon. It was all very beautiful.

Near the ship, water that did not come from a machine gurgled across
the land, and Rikud lay down and drank. It was cool and good, and when
he got up, Crifer and Wilm were outside the world, and some of the
others followed. They stood around for a long time before going to the
water to drink.

Rikud sat down and tore off a piece of a plant, munching on it. It was
good.

Crifer picked his head up, from the water, his chin wet. "Even feelings
are variable. I don't hate you now, Rikud."

Rikud smiled, staring at the ship. "People are variable, too, Crifer.
That is, if those creatures coming from the ship are people."

"They're women," said Crifer.

They were strangely shaped in some ways, and yet in others completely
human, and their voices were high, like singing. Rikud found them oddly
exciting. He liked them. He liked the garden, for all its hugeness.
With so many people, and especially now with women, he was not afraid.

It was much better than the small world of machinery, buzzer,
frightening doors and women by appointment only.

Rikud felt at home.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Sense of Wonder, by Milton Lesser

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SENSE OF WONDER ***

***** This file should be named 51296.txt or 51296.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/2/9/51296/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
