The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Pilot and the Bushman, by Sylvia Jacobs

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Pilot and the Bushman

Author: Sylvia Jacobs

Release Date: March 1, 2016 [EBook #51297]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PILOT AND THE BUSHMAN ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                       THE PILOT AND THE BUSHMAN

                           By SYLVIA JACOBS

                      Illustrated by DAVID STONE

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                  Galaxy Science Fiction August 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




      Technological upheavals caused by inventions of our own are
      bad enough, but this was the ultimate depression, caused by
       the ultimate alien invention--which no Earthman ever saw!


The Ambassador from Outer Space sprang to his feet, taking Jerry's
extended hand in a firm, warm grasp. Jerry had been prepared for
almost anything--a scholarly brontosaurus, perhaps, or an educated
squid or giant caterpillar with telepathic powers. But the Ambassador
didn't even have antennae, gills, or green hair. He was a completely
normal and even handsome human being.

"Scotch? Cigar?" the Ambassador offered cordially. "How can I help you,
Mr. Jergins?"

Studying him, Jerry decided there _was_ something peculiar about this
extraterrestrial, after all. He was too perfect. His shave was too
close, his skin so unblemished as to suggest wax-works. Every strand of
his distinguished iron-gray hair was impeccably placed. The negligent
and just-right drape of his clothes covered a body shaped like a Sixth
Century B.C. piece of Greek sculpture. No mere human could have looked
so unruffled, so utterly groomed, at three o'clock in the afternoon, in
a busy office. A race, Jerry wondered, capable of taking any shape at
will, in mimicry of the indigenous race of any planet?

"You _can_ help me, but I'm not sure you _will_," Jerry said. "The
rumor is that you won't do anything to ease this buyers' strike you
started on Earth."

The Ambassador smiled. "You're a man who's not used to taking no for an
answer, I gather. What's your proposition?"

"I'd like to contact some of the firms on the Federated Planets, show
them how I could promote their merchandise on Earth. Earth is already
clamoring for their goods. To establish a medium of exchange, we'd have
to run simultaneous campaigns, promoting Earth merchandise on other
planets."

"That would be difficult, even for a man of your promotional ability,"
the Ambassador said winningly. "You see, Earth is the only planet
we've yet discovered where advertising--or promotion, to use the
broader term--exists as a social and economic force."

"How in hell can anybody do business without it?" Jerry demanded.

"We don't do business in the sense you mean. Don't mistake me," the
Ambassador added hastily, "we don't have precisely a communal economy,
either. Our very well defined sense of ethics in regard to material
goods is something I find impossible to describe in any Earth language.
It's quite simple, so simple that you have to grow up with it to
understand it. Our whole attitude toward material goods is conditioned
by the Matter Repositor."

"_That_ gadget!" Jerry said bitterly. "It was when you first mentioned
it before the U.N. Assembly that all this trouble on Earth started.
Everybody and his brother hopes that tomorrow he can buy a Matter
Repositor, and never have to buy anything again. I came here mostly
to ask you whether it's really true, that if you have one of those
dinguses, you can bring anything you want into your living room."

"You _can_. In practice, of course, repositing just anything that took
your fancy would produce economic anarchy."

"Let's put it this way," Jerry persisted. "Home appliances were my
biggest accounts. Now, when we try to sell a refrigerator, the prospect
says she's saving her cash till Matter Repositors get on the Earth
market. She plans to reposit a refrigerator--not from her neighbor's
kitchen, because that would be stealing--but from the factory. If the
factory goes bust, people figure the government will have to subsidize
building appliances. Now, could she really reposit a refrigerator?"

"She could. But she wouldn't want to."

"Why not?" Jerry asked, puzzled.

"If she conceived an illogical and useless desire for food
refrigeration, she would simply reposit a block of cold air from, say,
the North Pole."

"Oh, fine!" Jerry said sarcastically. "That would cause more
unemployment in the refrigerator industry than repositing them without
paying for them! But what do you mean about food refrigeration being
illogical and useless?"

"Well, in a storage warehouse, there might be some reason for food
preservation. But you don't need cold or canning. Why not just reposit
the bacteria that cause the food to deteriorate? There's no need to
store food in a home equipped with a Matter Repositor. You simply
reposit one meal at a time. Fruits and vegetables direct from tree or
field. Meat from a slaughterhouse, since it isn't humane to remove a
pound of steak from a live steer. But even this is needless."

"Why?" Jerry baffledly wanted to know.

"To free the maximum amount of the effort of thinking beings for
non-material activities, each consumer can reposit the chemical
elements of the food, synthesize his meal on the table. He can even
reposit these elements directly into his stomach, or, to by-pass the
effort of digestion, into his bloodstream as glycogen and amino acids."

"So refrigerators would be as dead an item as kerosene lamps in a
city wired for electricity," Jerry agreed unhappily. "Suppose Mrs.
Housewife, not needing a refrigerator, reposits a washing machine. The
point I'm driving at--is there any practical way to compensate the
factory, give it an incentive to produce more washing machines, without
dragging in government control?"

"Why should the factory produce more washing machines? Who would want
one? The housewife would simply reposit the dirt from her clothes
into her flowerbed, without using water and soap. Or, more likely,
reposit new clothes with different colors, fabrics, and styles. The
Matter Repositor would eliminate textile mills and clothing factories.
Earth's oceans have vast enough quantities of seaweed to eliminate the
growing of cotton, wool, or flax. Or, again, you could reposit the
chemical elements, either from the soil or from seawater."

Jerry pondered the extensive implications of these revelations.
Finally he said, "What it boils down to is this. All Earth's bustling
material activity, all the logging and construction, the mining and
manufacturing, the planting and fishing, the printing and postal
service, the great transportation and shipping effort, the cleaning and
painting, the sewage disposal, even the bathing and self-adornment,
consist, when you analyze them, of one process only--_putting something
from where you don't want it to where you do_. There's not one single,
solitary Earth invention or service left to advertise!"

"Nothing," the Ambassador agreed. "Which is exactly why advertising has
not developed on the Federated Planets. You're fortunate that Earth
doesn't have Matter Repositors. You'd be out of a job if it did."

"Oh, no!" Jerry said. "I could still advertise the gadget to end all
gadgets--the Matter Repositor itself. I know other people have asked
you this before, but could an Earth company get a franchise to import
those machines here, or the license rights to manufacture them?"

"No," the Ambassador said, briefly and definitely.

"Mr. Ambassador," Jerry protested, "you've gone to a lot of trouble to
explain things you must already be tired of explaining to Earthmen,
just so I personally could be sure they weren't merely rumors or
misinterpretations. Now that I get down to the real point, you suddenly
become blunt and unqualified. Why?"

"Because there's a very serious question of ethics involved, wherever a
more advanced civilization comes in contact with a relatively primitive
one. For instance, when the white men came to America, the aborigines
were introduced to gunpowder and firewater."

"So you people are keeping Matter Repositors away from us, like a mama
keeping candy away from a baby who's hollering for it, because it's not
good for him! You'd pass up a chance to name your own price--"

"The very way you phrase that remark indicates the danger. You regard
personal gain as the strongest of motives, which means that Matter
Repositors would be used for that, even by such unusually intelligent
members of your race as yourself."

"Don't softsoap me," Jerry said angrily. "Not after you just got
through saying that we Earthlings are nothing but naked savages,
compared to the high and mighty super-beings on other planets!"

"I apologize for my phraseology," the Ambassador said. "With my limited
command of your language--"

"Your limited command, nuts! I suppose you supermen enjoy seeing us
naked savages squirm. Why talk sanctimoniously about the damage you
might do, when you know damn well the damage has already been done?
Just the news that something as advanced as the Matter Repositor exists
has sent unemployment to a new high, and the stock market to a new low.
And you theorize about ethics, while denying us the only cure!" Jerry
found himself fighting a nearly irresistible impulse to smash his fist
into that too-perfect profile--which, he realized glumly, would only
prove the Ambassador's point about savages.

"Here, here," the Ambassador said benevolently, "let's have another
drink. Then we'll see whether I can make it clear to you why the actual
importation of Matter Repositors would cause much more trouble on Earth
than the announcement of their existence, bad as the effect of that has
been. To begin with, I admit I made a very serious error in mentioning
the device at all before the U.N. Assembly. I intended merely to
explain how I came here without a spaceship. After that, I was flooded
with questions; I could no more avoid answering them than I could
courteously avoid answering the questions you've been asking today."

"You mean you super-beings actually admit you're human enough to make
mistakes?" Jerry asked, somewhat mollified.

"Of course we make mistakes. We try not to make the same one twice.
You see, we once made the mistake of importing Matter Repositors to a
planet whose natural resources and social concepts weren't adequate
for the device. That was a long time ago, and they haven't recovered
from the effects yet. Suppose a consignment of ten thousand Matter
Repositors arrived on Earth tomorrow. Under your economic system, who
would get them?"

"The ten thousand people or corporations who had the most money to pay
for them, I guess. Unless government agencies grabbed 'em."

"Can you guarantee that of the ten thousand people on Earth who have
the most money, not one is unscrupulous?"

"Gosh, no!" Jerry said. "I don't think there's any doubt that to stay
in business very long, a man or a company has to have a certain amount
of business ethics. Nobody can gyp the public indefinitely. But a bank
robber might have a lot of cash, or a confidence man, or a cluck with a
big inheritance."

"So, to be generous, let's assume that 9,999 of your wealthiest persons
are so ethical that they would never make any profit at the expense of
the general welfare. That leaves us one crook. What would he reposit
first?"

"Hmm.... Maybe the gold at Fort Knox."

"And what effect would that have on Earth's business?"

"I'm not quite sure," Jerry admitted. "I'm no shark on monetary theory,
just the kind of large-scale salesman who makes mass production
possible. But it certainly wouldn't do the world situation any good."

"Suppose, next, our crook holds the President of the United States for
ransom. Since he doesn't need money, the ransom price might be laws
which would grant him impunity for his crimes. If not, he could have an
accomplice reposit him out of jail, or even out of the electric chair,
before the switch was pulled."

"That's enough! I get the idea!" Jerry exclaimed.

"Wait--there's a more important point. Suppose a government you
consider the wrong government got hold of some of the machines. First,
of course, they'd reposit the world stockpile of atomic bombs. Then
they'd reposit disease bacteria into the bloodstreams of U.N. troops,
officials, and civilian workers, and reposit all the ammunition out
of U.N. guns. So long as there is one spark of nationalism left on
Earth, so long as any country has an economic and political system
they consider better than some other system, Matter Repositors would
mean planetary self-destruction. Now do you see why I was blunt and
unqualified?"

"I do," Jerry said solemnly, "And I was a fool to fly off the handle
when you called us savages. We are savages, I can see that now. And
your people must be pretty damned godlike to be trusted with such an
invention!"

"Not at all. To a Micronesian bushman, the pilot who can be trusted
with the power and speed of a B-29 seems a veritable god. But the pilot
is only an ordinary Joe, very likely no more intelligent than the
bushman--he just had a different background. Fighting each other for
necessities and luxuries, the process that you people call business
competition, has so long been needless to our people that they would
no more think of competitive gain than you would do an Indian harvest
dance before you signed a contract. They aren't necessarily more
intelligent or more virtuous than your people--they just have a
different background."

"You seem to have devoted a lot of study to the larceny in the
Earthman's soul," Jerry put in. "What if we stole the secret from you,
whether you think it wise to give it to us or not? Suppose somebody
swiped the blueprints, or copied a Repositor you brought with you for
your own use?"

The Ambassador smiled. "You might _try_ to steal it. That's why I
didn't bring a Repositor with me, to save you people the trouble of a
futile try."

"Why futile?"

"Well, the Matter Repositor is a simple device. Any child on the
Federated Planets who had an education, say, equivalent to your
technical high school education, could build a working model, even
without another Repositor to assist him. But Earth's best technicians
couldn't build one, even with either blueprints or a model to copy."

"They couldn't, eh?" Jerry challenged, bristling again. "They managed
to split atoms, transmute elements, do a few little tricks like that."

"I see I've been tactless again," the Ambassador said regretfully.
"Just now, you readily conceded that Earthmen are savages morally, but
when I seem to cast aspersions on your mechanical ability, it offends
your racial vanity. All right, let's go back to the B-29 pilot and the
intelligent bushman. The internal combustion engine that powers the
B-29 is a simple device in fundamental principle, isn't it?"

"Sure," Jerry said.

"Any high school boy who has taken a course in auto mechanics, who has
the requisite machine tools, metals, casting equipment, and fuel, could
build a working model of an internal combustion engine, couldn't he,
even without ready-made parts?"

"If he wasn't all thumbs, he could."

"All right. Now suppose the B-29 is grounded in the jungle. The bushman
is examining the engine. He's just as intelligent as the pilot,
remember, but his environment hasn't produced an oil well, let alone a
refinery. He has never seen a lathe or a micrometer. He has no mine, no
smelter. He can't copy that B-29 engine by whittling wood or chipping
stone, even if he's a born mechanical genius, and he can't run it on
seawater. So he says the plane flies by magic. Put him in the pilot
seat, and you'll admit it's practically inevitable that he'll crash."

"Why do you take so much trouble to explain things?" Jerry asked wryly.
"I should have my head examined for not understanding it in the first
place."

"Let's say I'm feebly trying to make amends for what my unfortunate
slip of the tongue has done to your business."

"You've brought me around to your way of thinking, Mr. Ambassador,"
Jerry said, recovering enough to carry the ball. "But it would be
impossible to sell the public on the idea that they shouldn't have
Repositors because they're too hot to handle. Statistics on auto
accidents never convinced anybody that he didn't want a nice, shiny,
new car. Nobody thinks he personally will get killed in traffic--he's
too smart. You can't convince a youngster he doesn't want candy before
dinner; he thinks he knows better than his parents. But you can hide
the candy, while putting an appetizing meal on the table."

"Yes, except that I regrettably didn't hide the fact that the Matter
Repositor exists."

"You sure didn't. And it puts you on a spot, doesn't it? I don't
imagine it will be much fun for you to report to your government that
one ill-considered remark, made shortly after your arrival, upset
Earth's economy."

For the first time, the Ambassador's suavity was ruffled. Sweat stood
out on his noble forehead. "I've been hoping the bad-effects would die
down before I have to report," he confessed.

"They won't die down by themselves. You know damned well they're
getting worse and worse, as word-of-mouth advertising about the Matter
Repositor spreads." Jerry leaned closer. "But you and I can get rid of
those bad effects."

"How?"

"Well, I'll tell you. When I came to see you, I was pretty sure you'd
turn me down cold on importing Matter Repositors. But I had an ace
up my sleeve. I hoped you would admit that the reason you've been
stalling on selling Earth any Repositors is that you don't really have
a practical one. I thought maybe rumors of the Repositor's powers
had been vastly exaggerated. If you admitted that, I intended to
publicize it to the limit. A campaign to convince Earthmen that you'd
been kidding them would work, because it plays on John Q. Public's
conviction that he's pretty smart, too smart to believe all this gab
about a gadget he's never seen. With your denial to back me up, I could
put it across. It would be a lifesaving shot in the arm for Earth
business."

"You mean," the Ambassador said reflectively, "that if I call myself
a liar--if I actually become a liar in so doing--I can patch up the
damage I've done? That puts me in a difficult ethical position."

"Not as difficult as the one you're in now. If it will make it easier
for you, I can word your denial in a face-saving way, and have it ready
for your signature Tuesday. You have a remarkable command of colloquial
English, but even a diplomat using his native tongue can't juggle the
connotations and inferences like an advertising man."

"It's very kind of you to offer your professional skill in my behalf. I
think I should pay you a fee for the copy."

"Skip it," Jerry said generously, fingering the nickel and two pennies
in his pocket. "A small token of my appreciation for the patience
you've shown. What time Tuesday?"

"Say two o'clock?"

"Fine. But before I spend my time on this, you're not going to make the
same deal with somebody else, are you?"

"Deal? Did I make a deal?"

"What I mean, nobody else has approached you with the idea that Earth
business would get back to normal if you would deny that a practical
Matter Repositor exists? You'd say I have exclusive rights to the idea?"

"Nobody has," the Ambassador said, "and I agree to give you exclusive
rights."

"Good! With your signed denial, I can raise the loot. I think the
N.A.M. will go for it. The campaign will have to be well-financed,
you see; the amount of space the news columns will give to your denial
may be as much as they gave to your original statement, but that alone
won't do the job. It's much harder to kill a notion that has penetrated
the public mind than it is to implant one."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Ambassador indulged in a chuckle. "I'm beginning to see daylight.
My signed denial in your hands becomes a salable piece of merchandise,
worth far more than I would pay you for a few lines of copy. Well, more
power to you! Would it be out of place for me to contribute some of the
funds for publicizing this denial?"

"How much?" Jerry asked practically.

"Well," the Ambassador explained, "I've had nothing reposited that I
could avoid. But since your planet has a monetary exchange, I had to
pay for my office help, lodging, and so on. Synthesizing coinage would
have been counterfeiting, which is against your laws, so I merely had
a moderate amount of uncoined gold reposited, and I sell it on the
regular Earth market as I need funds. Gold has no particular value on
the Federated Planets, of course. I could get whatever you need, so
long as it isn't enough to disrupt the economy any more than--well,
than I have already. Let's limit ourselves to an amount that could be
accounted for by an unusually good year in mining."

"Sold!" Jerry said happily. "I think I can struggle along on a million
a month retainer. Plus the usual fifteen per cent on advertising
space and printing, of course; I'll have an estimate on that for you
Tuesday. Since you can finance the whole campaign yourself, we'll
leave the N.A.M. out of it. That way I can spare you the humiliation
of signing an outright denial. All you have to do from now on is
to keep mum. Don't even admit that you're the angel financing this
campaign; that would make it look phony. I'll assign you three personal
public-relations men, on twenty-four-hour shift. All your public
remarks are to screen through them."

"But how can I conceal my identity when I'm sponsoring the campaign?"
the Ambassador objected.

"That's easy. The ostensible sponsor will be a dummy organization
called--um--the Consumers Fact Finding Board. Nobody but me needs to
know who signs the checks."

"How long will this campaign continue?"

"I figure it'll take about six months to sell the public this
particular bill of goods. Once we get business revived, the best thing
is never to mention the words Matter Repositor again, not even to deny
its existence. The ultimate goal is to make people forget they ever
heard of such a gadget. The more convincing I make it, the quicker I'll
work myself out of a job."

"I should think you'd make it last as long as possible; that's why I
asked you for a time-limit. Do you _want_ to work yourself out of a
job?"

"You bet I do! Then I can start selling a bigger item, launch a
longer-term promotion, one that will last till Earth gets civilized,
till I don't have anything more to sell. From what you say, that will
take a lot longer than I'll live."

"It may be none of my business, but what is this big item you propose
to sell next?" the Ambassador asked, curiously.

"Earth," Jerry said.

The Ambassador looked confused. "I'm afraid I don't understand."

"Didn't you just get through telling me, in effect, that any of your
people who came to Earth could have all the money they wanted to spend?
Well, I'm going to run advertising copy on the Federated Planets, and
get them to come here and spend it."

"But I also told you that advertising is unknown on the Federated
Planets!" the Ambassador protested.

"All the better. Your people, then, will have less sales resistance
than an audience of Earth kindergarten kids, who have had spot
commercials dinned into their ears since birth. The only problem is
space and time."

"The Matter Repositor has effectively solved the problems of space and
time."

"No, I mean space and time as an advertising man uses those terms.
Newspaper and magazine space, radio and TV time. Do you have any
newspapers out there?"

"We have very little you would classify as news. No wars, no stock
market, no crime, no epidemics, no political mudslinging, few
accidents. But we do have information bulletins, of course."

"Fine! Besides that million a month retainer, I want an exclusive
contract to run advertising copy in the information bulletins on the
Federated Planets."

"This is completely unprecedented!"

"You want to get out of this mess you're in, don't you? I'm the boy who
can get you out, and that's my price."

"You drive a hard bargain, Mr. Jergins. Very well, I'll arrange it. But
I'm getting you the contract only because I'm certain your excursion
idea won't work. Oh, I know Earth men want to visit the Federated
Planets; I've had plenty of requests. I've had to explain repeatedly
that we must hold to our announced policy of no ambassador from Earth,
and no exchange students, until Earth has completed a few more steps in
the development of her civilization. But surely none of our people will
come to Earth, aside from a few students of comparative civilizations.
Our general public can view samples of your national costumes,
automobiles, and so on, in the museums. I can't see why they should
want to come here, while Earth is still in a primitive and dangerous
stage."

"You can't, eh? Well, you might be surprised, Mr. Ambassador, you
might be surprised. For the time being, just picture yourself as the
pilot of that B-29, grounded on a primitive little island in space.
You've met a poor, ignorant bushman. He couldn't reproduce your plane
to save his neck. He can't manufacture a single gadget you'd want to
buy. Nevertheless, you're about to see a demonstration of a few tricks
of survival that your super-civilized race has forgotten--or, rather,
never knew. I think you'll cook up into a right tasty dish."

       *       *       *       *       *

Four days later, the Better Business Bureau of Oskaloosa, Iowa,
nabbed a questionable character who had accepted deposits from local
businessmen, in return for elaborately printed but worthless contracts
to deliver Matter Repositors.

The warning flash crossed similar warnings from New Orleans, Reno,
Milwaukee, and the Borough of Queens, with a particularly hysterical
note injected by Los Angeles, where the populace had proved most
susceptible to the bogus agents. The news of a national ring of
confidence artists, capitalizing on people's desire for Matter
Repositors, ran in all papers, of course. The editors as yet hadn't the
faintest idea that they were printing carefully engineered publicity.

Before he even got his space contracts lined up, Jerry had accomplished
quite a feat. He had fixed things so that, if the Ambassador from Outer
Space himself had changed his mind, and imported a cargo of genuine
Matter Repositors, he would have had some trouble convincing people he
wasn't a crook.

In a record two weeks, the campaign proper was ready to roll. It was
long on white space, and the copy was so short that, after glancing
at it a few times, you found that you had involuntarily committed it
to memory. In the center of blank pages in all major metropolitan
newspapers appeared a small want-ad, stating that the Consumers Fact
Finding Board had deposited with a New York bank the sum of one million
dollars in cash, _after taxes_, which would be paid to any person,
terrestrial or extraterrestrial, who could produce a Matter Repositor
capable of repositing an object weighing two pounds a distance of ten
feet.

The offer was repeated daily for a month, and from the second day
forward, there was a large, red overprint, looking like a crayon
scrawl, which said, "No Takers to Date who Can Deliver the Goods!"

The idea was pounded into the public mind by carcards, billboards,
direct mail, and annoying telephone solicitors, who got subscribers
out of bathtub and bed to ask them whether they had a Matter Repositor
around the house they wanted to sell for a million dollars. Skywriters
by day and illuminated blimps by night made sure the literate could not
escape the message. Radio and TV singing and cartoon commercials took
care of the illiterate.

No conclusions were drawn in the copy. Each "prospect" was left with
the comfortable feeling that his own superior intellect and powers of
deduction had supplied the answer. No Matter Repositor turned up for
sale, so everyone was sure there was no such thing. The whole campaign,
like other advertising campaigns before it, depended on what people
failed to consider. They neglected to realize that a million dollars
would be a joke to the owner of a Matter Repositor, who could reposit
all the wealth on Earth, including the million in the New York bank,
but would have no use for money, since he could reposit usable goods.
The magic phrase "a million dollars" was a worldwide symbol for all
desirable material things. It would have been almost heresy to reflect
that even that much cash had no actual value.

       *       *       *       *       *

As Jerry promised, the Ambassador didn't have to issue an official
denial. His chief public relations man quite truthfully admitted
to reporters that the Ambassador had no Matter Repositor in his
possession, a dispatch carried by all wire services, and snickered at
by clever columnists.

In basements and garages, persons of good, bad, and indifferent
mechanical ability strove to earn the million. The U.S. patent office
was inundated with models and drawings of unworkable devices. One of
the Duke University subjects tried to patent his ability to influence
the fall of dice mentally.

During the next session of the Congress, Jerry's crack lobbyists raised
a great howl about the shameful congestion in the Patent Office, not
mentioning, of course, that they were employed by the man who had
created the congestion, by offering a million dollars for a device he
knew no Earthman could build.

Another dummy organization, dubbed the Inventors Protective League,
sponsored a bill to amend the act relating to perpetual motion
machines. It passed, with an emergency clause, and, thereafter, devices
purporting to reposit matter were not entitled to letters of patent.

This just about clinched the deal, for the vast majority of people,
who had never watched laws enacted, assumed that if something was in
the law, there must be a good reason for it, unless, of course, it was
anything like prohibition.

A name band revived "The Thing," leaving the drumbeats out of the vocal
refrain, and substituting, "Get out of here with that Matter Repositor,
before I call a cop!" Within six months, radio and TV comedians had
worn out the joke. Even Goofy, My Friend Irma, Mrs. Ace, and Gracie
Allen were too sophisticated to believe in Matter Repositors. Gags
about them dropped to the same low level as those about Brooklyn and
joke-stealing comics.

Although his appearance in public was liable to start boos and
catcalls, the Ambassador from Outer Space was duly grateful. He was
spared the painful necessity of reporting his disastrous slip of the
tongue to his government, for Earth economy was again on the upward
spiral. Everybody was spending the money he'd been saving up for a
Matter Repositor.

The Ambassador cheerfully paid the million-a-month retainer and the
whopping space bills, but Jerry's greatest gain in the transaction was
his agreement allowing him to run advertising in the Federated Planets
information bulletins. The space didn't cost him a nickel. Yet he knew
how to sell his exclusive rights to it for more money than any one
Earth company had in its promotional budget.

By the time the campaign debunking the Matter Repositor was ready
to die a natural death, Jerry had started an organization of Earth
businessmen, spearheaded by the Restaurant and Hotel Associations, and
the transportation interests, to promote Earth as a primitive planet.
The primitive aspects of Earth, Jerry predicted, would exert a powerful
appeal on the citizens of the Federated Planets, who must be pretty
bored with civilization, and badly in need of a vacation from too much
perfection.

This organization was not composed of dummies, by any means, but the
businessmen joined up with a vague idea that their hostelries were to
be way-stations, that they were going to promote sightseeing tours to
places they themselves would call primitive, that the human exhibits
would consist of blanketed Navajos, Chinese coolies, hula girls, Voodoo
dancers, and Eskimos.

Jerry filled the biggest convention hall in Chicago, and, at the climax
of the proceedings, dramatically drew back a velvet curtain, unveiling
a huge painting of the symbol of the campaign--a masked bandit, wearing
a slouch hat, clutching in a greedy hand a fat bag marked with a dollar
sign. Below was blazoned the tasteful slogan, "Let the People of Earth
Gyp You!"

A chorus of outrage echoed in the rafters. It hadn't occurred to the
members that primitive exhibit A would be themselves; to wit, the genus
Earth businessman; sub-species, go-getter. Jerry emerged from the
resulting argument somewhat battered, but with what any experienced
advertising man would recognize as a victory. His copy was to run in
five per cent of the space, keyed. Now all he had to do was prove in
dollars and cents that he knew more about mass sales psychology than
his clients, which was, of course, a cinch.

In spite of translation into a more civilized language, Jerry's five
per cent of the space out-pulled the tamer ninety-five per cent by
better than ten to one. Thereafter, his clients swallowed their pride,
voted him a free hand, and contented themselves with raking in the
shekels from a steady stream of handsome and rich extraterrestrial
tourists.

       *       *       *       *       *

After Jerry's tourist promotion had been running two years, the U.S.
Post Office broke down and printed an issue of three-cent stamps
commemorating the influx, showing the goddess Terra with welcoming arms
open to the starred heavens. Jerry Jergins, the second advertising man
in history to achieve the distinction of having Uncle Sam plug his
product on a stamp, thereby entered the most select circles of his
chosen profession.

Jerry bought enough of the stamps to paper the walls of his swank and
spacious penthouse offices, for the benefit of the swarm of tourists
who invaded the place daily during afternoon open-house hours. They all
wanted to see an advertising agency; to them, this phenomenon was the
essence of that primitive planet, Earth. Jerry had recorded a lecture
on primitive Earth customs which issued from concealed loudspeakers,
and filled display cases with exhibits of primitive Earth culture,
emphasizing the aspects he felt these extraterrestrials would find most
exotic.

Considering the fact that Jerry had managed to learn little about the
Federated Planets that was not utterly essential to the mechanics
of his advertising campaign there, he had done a pretty good job of
"getting on the customer's side of the counter." Every tourist Jerry
talked to had been conditioned, by some unrevealed but apparently
foolproof process, not to repeat the Ambassador's error of mentioning
Matter Repositors, or other aspects of life on the Federated Planets
that might cause repercussions on Earth. Even tourist children couldn't
be bribed with lollypops. Tourists talked a great deal, in fluent
idiomatic Earth English, yet somehow said very little.

But Jerry knew at least one thing--he was stirring emotions that lay
so deep under layers and layers of civilization that these shining,
perfect people hadn't known they were capable of feeling them, until
they visited Earth. He was getting under their smooth skins, just as
surely as the monotone of a Haitian drum-beat gets under the skin of a
New Yorker.

One of the display cases contained the working tools of
gangsterism--sawed-off shotguns, blackjacks, a model of a bullet-proof
automobile, a news photo of the St. Valentine's Day massacre, a
clipping about police payoffs from houses of gambling and prostitution,
another about blindness resulting from wood alcohol. The shot-glasses
of authentic antique bootleg gin that stood on top the cases were often
smelled but never sampled.

The second case showed a chart of fluctuations of the stock market,
with an actual operating ticker in the middle. Sections of the tape
were much in demand as souvenirs. But the photo of a smashed body of
a once-wealthy man who jumped from his office window after losing his
fortune caused the most comment. The tourists found it difficult to
understand how this man could consider his life less important than his
bank balance.

The largest case contained models of war weapons, a lurid painting of
Pearl Harbor under aerial attack, another of the Hiroshima mushroom
that ushered in the atomic age. There were gas masks, artificial limbs,
a photo of a blinded veteran led by a Seeing-Eye dog. The tourists
gaped at that exhibit with all the relish of Coney Island crowds
visiting wax replicas of famous murder scenes.

And along the entire 40-foot wall of the reception room, a photo-mural
of a ragged, depression-era breadline brooded over the sleek heads of
the beautifully dressed and elaborately fed tourists.

On his way back to the office after lunch one day, Jerry spied a
traffic-stopping cluster of humanity in the street outside one of the
city's leading department stores. The crowd was gathered around a
paddy-wagon. Never diffident, Jerry elbowed his way through the crush,
to see two handsome and once well-groomed gentlemen getting a mussing
up from a couple of cops. The suspects, athletic-looking characters,
were putting up a good fight, and the policemen didn't like it. As
Jerry watched, a billy descended on a well-barbered head, and suspect
number one ceased resisting arrest.

Jerry had come into contact with enough extraterrestrials by now so
that he knew a tourist when he saw one. The male tourists gave him a
violent pain in the neck, but he felt somewhat responsible. He grabbed
an elbow of the suspect who remained conscious.

"Give me your name, bud, and I'll bail you out. What happened?"

"Oh, we just took a few things off the counters in that store," the
tourist answered. "You're very kind, but we have plenty of money for
bail, thanks. Or is it a bribe you're supposed to hand them?"

"If you have plenty of money, why in hell didn't you buy the stuff,
instead of stealing it?"

"We just thought we'd have a bit of a lark. New experience and all
that. When on Earth, do as the Earthmen do."

"A lark!" the biggest policeman grunted. "We'll give you a lark,
all right! Get in there, you!" He implemented his command with a
well-placed kick in the seat of a pair of expertly tailored pants,
boosting the tourist into the paddy-wagon, where his unconscious friend
had already been deposited.

The siren screamed, dispersing the crowd in front of the police
vehicle, and Jerry went on his way, chuckling. As he passed a
hole-in-the-wall bar he knew, he decided to stop for a quick one, to
settle the heavy feeling in his stomach that came from eating lobster
Newburg for lunch. It wasn't a place where you'd care to take a lady,
but they served an honest ounce.

As Jerry pushed through the old-fashioned swinging doors, a burst
of sound greeted him. A whiskey baritone was rendering one of the
unpublishable versions of "Christopher Columbo," to the accompaniment
of a piano tinkle by the hired help. The customer was obviously from
the other side of the tracks--from the other side of the Galaxy, in
fact--and he was leaning against the piano for the simple reason that
he couldn't stand up.

He wore a well-cut California-style dinner jacket, and after all night
and half the day, the white gabardine was no longer white. Several
drinks had been spilled on the midnight-blue flannel trousers. Only a
magnificent physique distinguished him from the Earth or garden variety
of drunk.

Jerry stood up to the bar, and as his eyes became accustomed to the
dimness, he observed a touching--literally--scene being enacted in the
darkest booth. An Earthside racetrack tout, whom Jerry recognized as
one of the habitues of the place, had a gorgeous female tourist backed
into a corner. She had retreated as far as the wall permitted, but he
had long since caught up.

Her jaunty, elbow-length chinchilla cape lay on the wet table. Her
exquisitely simple strapless dinner dress of silver lamé exposed arms
and shoulders that were literally out of this world. The naked effect
was relieved only by a diamond, platinum, and emerald choker. Jerry
knew, though the racetrack tout probably didn't, that the priceless
bauble was Repositor--synthesized, with an Earth museum piece as a
model.

It was a tossup whether the race track tout was more interested in the
diamonds or the tempting flesh they adorned. The girl made no attempt
to fight him off. The reason for her acquiescence was not far to seek.
The glass before her contained the remains of a "Pink Lady," which
tastes like an ice-cream soda and kicks like four Kentucky mules.

She moved her left hand to pick up the glass, and Jerry caught the
flash of a circlet of channel-set baguette diamonds on the third
finger. He concluded that she was the wife of the whiskey baritone.
That worthy seemed utterly unconcerned about the whole thing, so why
should Jerry interfere?

The racetrack tout left his conquest momentarily, walked over to the
bar, handed the bartender a five-spot. Without comment, the bartender
took down a key tagged 13 from a hook, and the turf expert pocketed
it. There was a dingy sign reading "Hotel" outside; Jerry had always
supposed the floors above contained equally dingy furnished rooms.

The beautiful tourist's silver heels mounted the back stairs
unsteadily. The tout was half steering her, half supporting her. The
man was sober enough to know exactly what he was doing. When she came
back down those stairs, she would be minus not only her virtue, but
her diamond necklace as well.

"Oh, he knew the world was round-o, that sailors could be found-o," the
whiskey baritone sang lustily.

Jerry left the saloon with a bad taste in his mouth. As he passed
through the electric-eye doorway of his office suite, he had the
impression that the too perfect inhabitants of all the color
advertising pages he had turned out in past years had suddenly come to
life. Handsome tourists were moving, in chattering groups, from one
display case to another.

Their chatter, as usual, gave him few clues. He still harbored a
suspicion that on their home planets, these lovely people might be
symbiotes in the bodies of lower animals, or loathsome but intellectual
worms. But he never had any success when he tried to pump them about
whether they were like Earth inhabitants at home, or were issued these
magnificent bodies and faces along with their passports to Earth.

His unreasoning dislike of the males was undoubtedly part jealousy,
for they were all tall, handsome, well-dressed, and athletic enough to
be signed en masse by Hollywood. But the universal utter perfection of
limb, features, and complexion, was not at all repulsive in the female.
It was quite decorative to have a whole chorus of toothsome girls in
Paris gowns cluttering up the office.

Jerry had never seen one of them use a lipstick, rouge, or an
eyebrow pencil. The cosmetic business was one of the few that had
not profited from the tourist trade, except insofar as lady tourists
bought costly perfumes, and Earthgirls strove to mimic the natural--or
unnatural--coloring of the fair visitors. A few tourists brought their
children along, and here the firm, rosy, unblemished skin was in its
proper element. Tourist children were not one whit more cherubic than
well-favored children of Earth.

A guide from the Conducted Tours Company arrived to round up a
batch of tourists, for a visit to the local jails, flop-houses, and
gambling dens. He announced they would go by bus, and the horrified
yet delighted whoops that greeted this news reminded Jerry of a Boston
society dowager who had just been invited to ride on a camel.

As the crowd trickled out the doors, a lovely vision in platinum blonde
laid a slender hand on Jerry's arm.

"Are you really the man who first thought of inviting us to this quaint
and delightful planet?" she gushed.

"I guess I am, lady. How do you like it?"

"Oh, it's so primitive! So elemental! Everybody used to think visiting
backward planets was dull and scholarly stuff. It took _you_ to show us
how thrilling and exciting it can be!"

"I'm glad to hear you say that. Some of the tourists are complaining
that Earth isn't as primitive as the Tourist Bureau advertising makes
it out to be."

"Oh, you _do_ exaggerate a wee, tiny bit, but it's all in good fun,
isn't it? On the whole, I'm not disappointed--especially not in the
_men_!" She fluttered eyelashes, so long and dark that they looked
artificial, at him.

"The men?" Jerry asked blankly.

"Oh, come, come!" the platinum blonde breathed throatily into his ear.
"Don't pretend to be so innocent! You must have heard of the simply
_terrific_ reputation Earthmen have acquired on other planets as
masterful lovers!"

"It's news to me," Jerry admitted, "but it sounds like a good drawing
card. I'll try to work something like that into our ads."

"Always thinking about business, aren't you? Why don't you think of
something else, for a change? Me, for instance. Don't you feel a little
bit sorry for a girl like me, with nothing but perfectly civilized men
to go home to?" the girl pouted invitingly.

Jerry found himself, by imperceptible stages, being backed into a
corner. Well, well, he thought. Perhaps he'd been too harsh in judging
that racetrack tout.

"Since you mention it," Jerry said, "I'm not averse to playing the role
of Galactic beachboy."

"What does a beachboy do?"

"I'd blush to explain it verbally to a girl unaccustomed to primitive
Earth customs, but I'm pretty good at sign language. How about dinner
tonight?"

"Well ... if you'll let me pay the check. I do so adore this amazing
Earth custom of exchanging food for little slips of paper."

"The pleasure is all yours, sister. See you at the Ritz main dining
room--eight o'clock. Soup and fish. Afterward, we'll look at my
photo-murals. Now toddle along, baby, if you want to catch the bus to
see those hoboes."

Jerry was walking on the Milky Way. Aside from the profits, this job
had its esthetic side, he decided. His exuberance was slightly dampened
by the grim expression on his secretary's face.

"A very important man has been waiting to see you," she said
disapprovingly. "I sent him into your office. The least I could do was
put him where he wouldn't have to smell all the perfume these brazen
tourist women use. It's enough to make a person ill!"

In the visitor's chair before Jerry's mother-of-pearl inlaid desk,
the Ambassador from Outer Space was waiting, staring morosely at the
endlessly repeated welcoming goddess Terra on Jerry's wall stamp
collection.

"Well, as I live and breathe!" Jerry exclaimed, "a real, live B-29
pilot! Welcome to my humble grass shack! Scotch? Cigar? What can I do
for you?"

"You can put out your bonfire, cannibal," the Ambassador said, gruffly.
"I think I've stewed enough."

"Why are you tough, then?" Jerry asked. "At me, I mean. I thought I was
your best friend in this here jungle. Didn't I do you a favor once, Mr.
Ambassador?"

"A _favor_? I paid you well for it! Not only in money, but by getting
advertising space for your precious Tourist Bureau on the Federated
Planets. I never thought it would lead to this!"

"You thought my copy wouldn't pull, eh? Not even after I'd demonstrated
I could make Earth opinion do a flip-flop on that Matter Repositor
deal?"

"Oh, I was quite sure you could manipulate Earthmen. That's your job.
But I didn't believe our people would respond in such numbers to an
appeal to primitive emotions!"

"You weren't alone in that," Jerry said smugly. "Some very prominent
members, of our organization wanted to make the campaign more
civilized. I showed them where they were wrong. Can't you see that your
people are fed up with civilization, right up to their pretty white
necks? The very essence of Earth's appeal to them is that a trip here
gives them a chance to relax their ethics, to play at going native."

"Don't rub it in!" The Ambassador shuddered.

"It's nothing new. Tourists have always kicked up their heels. Guess
what I saw while I was out to lunch. The cops grabbed a couple of your
boys for shoplifting! They thought it was such fun to ride in the
paddy-wagon. Back home, of course, they wouldn't think of repositing
anything they weren't supposed to, but on Earth it's different."

"And for monkeyshines like that," the Ambassador growled, "I am
driven half crazy working out sleep-record courses. '_Idioms of Earth
English_'--'_What Not to Say on Backward Planets and Why_'--'_Earth
Fashion Guide, What You Can Buy There and What to Reposit_.' Bah! I'm
supposed to be a diplomat, not a fashion adviser!"

"Why don't you hire some help?" Jerry suggested.

"I have. I've hired a whole staff, with offices in all major Earth
cities, to exchange platinum, bullion, and precious stones for Earth
currencies. It's a man-sized job, I can tell you, to keep Earth
currencies stable under this load!"

"You're doing a very good job," Jerry said, soothingly.

"You know what one of our citizens asked me yesterday? _How she could
get a marriage license!_ Your officials had turned her down, because
she'd been conditioned not to mention her birthplace and age. Mind you,
a citizen of the Federated Planets wanted to marry an Earthman and live
on this raw, Galactic frontier the rest of her life! Why, we don't even
know whether the races can cross-breed!"

"That should be looked into," Jerry agreed.

"What are you trying to do?" the Ambassador demanded, "Drag the
citizens of the Federated Planets down to the level of your jungle?
You blithely assume those two shoplifters can be trusted with Matter
Repositors when they get back home, but I'm not so sure. We haven't
any jails to toss them into, but we may have to establish some.
Matter-Repositor-proof jails!"

"That's your problem," Jerry said. "All I'm trying to do is make some
money for myself and, other businessmen on Earth. Which I'm doing,
thank you. And I doubt that you could stop me, at this point. Your
citizens would raise quite a howl if my ads stopped appearing in the
information bulletins."

"Money!" the Ambassador exclaimed, "All you Earthmen think about is
money!" He leaned over Jerry's desk. "What if you could reposit the
money--the gold, that is--without all the work you have to put into
entertaining these tourists?"

"Hmm," Jerry said, thinking of his date for that evening, and other
equally lovely tourists. "Money isn't the only thing in life. And don't
forget the income tax. I've got to have some deductible expenses."

"Knowing you, I'd bet you could figure out some way of handling that
little detail."

"What's your proposition?"

"Two years ago, you came to my office, wanting to import Matter
Repositors. I told you Earth's civilization wasn't ready for them."

"We still aren't, according to what you say about our avaricious
instincts."

"No, you're not. But you have methods of manipulating public opinion
and attitudes that are far more advanced than those found on other
planets."

"So you admit that Earth is advanced in _something_!" Jerry said
happily.

"How would you like to have the name of Jerry Jergins go down in your
history as the originator of the most significant public-relations
campaign ever undertaken on this planet?" the Ambassador asked,
temptingly. "You can handle it, if any man on Earth can."

"Softsoaping me again! What's the campaign? I'll listen to it, but I
don't know whether I'll buy it."

"Your job would be to get Earth's psychology and sociology ready for
the Matter Repositor."

Jerry reflected. "You mean I'd have to eliminate war, supplement the
Voice of America, and so on? I'd have certain advantages over the Voice
of America, at that. I wouldn't have a bunch of politicians playing
football with my appropriations."

"This campaign would have to go further and deeper than the Voice of
America. You might call it the Voice of Conscience. Its aim would be
to make every human being on Earth care more about the welfare of his
fellow-man than he cares about his own."

"A couple of thousand years back," Jerry said, soberly, "a better
Promoter than I tried to put that idea across. The campaign He started
is still running. It's taken hold in some quarters, but I wouldn't say
public acceptance is anything like worldwide yet."

"Then you don't think you can do it?" the Ambassador asked, his
eagerness somewhat deflated.

"I'm not committing myself to whether I could or couldn't. I could put
the Ten Commandments on an international hookup. Thou shalt not steal.
Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor his goods. I could get Walt Disney to
dramatize the golden rule."

"Ah, I see you have some ideas for the copy already," the Ambassador
said. "I thought I could get you interested in it. Then you'll sign a
contract?"

"No," Jerry said, briefly and definitely.

"Now, wait a minute, Mr. Jergins," the Ambassador protested. "Why
do you suddenly become blunt and unqualified? Do you realize what
I'm offering you? In return for ceasing this tourist promotion, I'm
offering you the invention that obsolesces all others--the Matter
Repositor!"

Jerry stood up and placed the palms of his hands flat on his desk.
"I told you that you'd learn something in our primitive jungle, Mr.
Ambassador. Well, this is it. We may be mechanical morons, according
to your standards, but we naked savages can produce anything we need.
Since we've corrected the misconception that what Earth produces isn't
good enough for Earthmen, and whipped up a tourist trade, business is
booming. And when it booms, we can distribute those Earth products in a
way that suits us pretty well. A primitive way, you may think, but one
that is adapted to the unfortunate circumstance that we aren't a bunch
of little tin saints living in an ideal world.

"I asked you for Matter Repositors once, and you were wise enough to
turn me down. I'm glad you did. They'd cause us more trouble than the
atomic bomb. We don't want the damn things. Do _you_ understand _that_?"

On sudden impulse, Jerry strode across his office. There stood a large
and brilliantly colored object, jarring oddly with the other furniture.
Sometimes at a loss to spend his newly acquired wealth, Jerry had
yielded, a month or so before, to a desire conceived in childhood to
own a real honest-to-goodness juke box.

Jerry fished in his pocket for a nickel, deposited it in the slot,
pushed button seven. Loud, tinny, and offensively blatant, the strains
of "I Don't Wanna Leave the Congo" filled the office, effectively
drowning out any further remarks the Ambassador from Outer Space might
have wished to make.

"If you'll pardon me," Jerry shouted over the din, "I have some arrow
heads to chip--and a potential extraterrestrial mate to woo with a
quaint tribal ritual we call dating on Earth."





End of Project Gutenberg's The Pilot and the Bushman, by Sylvia Jacobs

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE PILOT AND THE BUSHMAN ***

***** This file should be named 51297-8.txt or 51297-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/2/9/51297/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
