The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Man Outside, by Evelyn E. Smith

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Man Outside

Author: Evelyn E. Smith

Release Date: March 1, 2016 [EBook #51337]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MAN OUTSIDE ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            THE MAN OUTSIDE

                          By EVELYN E. SMITH

                         Illustrated by DILLON

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                  Galaxy Science Fiction August 1957.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




              No one, least of all Martin, could dispute
              that a man's life should be guarded by his
              kin--but by those who hadn't been born yet?


Nobody in the neighborhood was surprised when Martin's mother
disappeared and Ninian came to take care of him. Mothers had a way
of disappearing around those parts and the kids were often better
off without them. Martin was no exception. He'd never had it this
good while he was living with his old lady. As for his father, Martin
had never had one. He'd been a war baby, born of one of the tides of
soldiers--enemies and allies, both--that had engulfed the country in
successive waves and bought or taken the women. So there was no trouble
that way.

Sometimes he wondered who Ninian really was. Obviously that story
about her coming from the future was just a gag. Besides, if she really
was his great-great-grand-daughter, as she said, why would she tell
him to call her "_Aunt Ninian_"? Maybe he was only eleven, but he'd
been around and he knew just what the score was. At first he'd thought
maybe she was some new kind of social worker, but she acted a little
too crazy for that.

He loved to bait her, as he had loved to bait his mother. It was safer
with Ninian, though, because when he pushed her too far, she would cry
instead of mopping up the floor with him.

"But I can't understand," he would say, keeping his face straight. "Why
do you have to come from the future to protect me against your cousin
Conrad?"

"Because he's coming to kill you."

"Why should he kill me? I ain't done him nothing."

Ninian sighed. "He's dissatisfied with the current social order and
killing you is part of an elaborate plan he's formulated to change it.
You wouldn't understand."

"You're damn right. I _don't_ understand. What's it all about in
straight gas?"

"Oh, just don't ask any questions," Ninian said petulantly. "When you
get older, someone will explain the whole thing to you."

       *       *       *       *       *

So Martin held his peace, because, on the whole, he liked things the
way they were. Ninian really was the limit, though. All the people he
knew lived in scabrous tenement apartments like his, but she seemed to
think it was disgusting.

"So if you don't like it, clean it up," he suggested.

She looked at him as if he were out of his mind.

"Hire a maid, then!" he jeered.

And darned if that dope didn't go out and get a woman to come clean up
the place! He was so embarrassed, he didn't even dare show his face in
the streets--especially with the women buttonholing him and demanding
to know what gave. They tried talking to Ninian, but she certainly knew
how to give them the cold shoulder.

One day the truant officer came to ask why Martin hadn't been coming
to school. Very few of the neighborhood kids attended classes very
regularly, so this was just routine. But Ninian didn't know that and
she went into a real tizzy, babbling that Martin had been sick and
would make up the work. Martin nearly did get sick from laughing so
hard inside.

But he laughed out of the other side of his mouth when she went out and
hired a private tutor for him. A tutor--in that neighborhood! Martin
had to beat up every kid on the block before he could walk a step
without hearing "Fancy Pants!" yelled after him.

Ninian worried all the time. It wasn't that she cared what these people
thought of her, for she made no secret of regarding them as little
better than animals, but she was shy of attracting attention. There
were an awful lot of people in that neighborhood who felt exactly the
same way, only she didn't know that, either. She was really pretty
dumb, Martin thought, for all her fancy lingo.

"It's so hard to think these things out without any prior practical
application to go by," she told him.

He nodded, knowing what she meant was that everything was coming out
wrong. But he didn't try to help her; he just watched to see what
she'd do next. Already he had begun to assume the detached role of a
spectator.

When it became clear that his mother was never going to show up again,
Ninian bought one of those smallish, almost identical houses that
mushroom on the fringes of a city after every war, particularly where
intensive bombing has created a number of desirable building sites.

"This is a much better neighborhood for a boy to grow up in," she
declared. "Besides, it's easier to keep an eye on you here."

And keep an eye on him she did--she or a rather foppish young man who
came to stay with them occasionally. Martin was told to call him Uncle
Raymond.

From time to time, there were other visitors--Uncles Ives and
Bartholomew and Olaf, Aunts Ottillie and Grania and Lalage, and many
more--all cousins to one another, he was told, all descendants of his.

       *       *       *       *       *

Martin was never left alone for a minute. He wasn't allowed to play
with the other kids in the new neighborhood. Not that their parents
would have let them, anyway. The adults obviously figured that if
a one-car family hired private tutors for their kid, there must be
something pretty wrong with him. So Martin and Ninian were just as
conspicuous as before. But he didn't tip her off. She was grown up; she
was supposed to know better than he did.

He lived well. He had food to eat that he'd never dreamed of before,
warm clothes that no one had ever worn before him. He was surrounded by
more luxury than he knew what to do with.

The furniture was the latest New Grand Rapids African modern. There
were tidy, colorful Picasso and Braque prints on the walls. And every
inch of the floor was modestly covered by carpeting, though the walls
were mostly unabashed glass. There were hot water and heat all the time
and a freezer well stocked with food--somewhat erratically chosen, for
Ninian didn't know much about meals.

The non-glass part of the house was of neat, natural-toned wood, with a
neat green lawn in front and a neat parti-colored garden in back.

Martin missed the old neighborhood, though. He missed having other
kids to play with. He even missed his mother. Sure, she hadn't given
him enough to eat and she'd beaten him up so hard sometimes that she'd
nearly killed him--but then there had also been times when she'd hugged
and kissed him and soaked his collar with her tears. She'd done all
she could for him, supporting him in the only way she knew how--and if
respectable society didn't like it, the hell with respectable society.

From Ninian and her cousins, there was only an impersonal kindness.
They made no bones about the fact that they were there only to carry
out a rather unpleasant duty. Though they were in the house with him,
in their minds and in their talk they were living in another world--a
world of warmth and peace and plenty where nobody worked, except in the
government service or the essential professions. And they seemed to
think even that kind of job was pretty low-class, though better than
actually doing anything with the hands.

In their world, Martin came to understand, nobody worked with hands;
everything was done by machinery. All the people ever did was wear
pretty clothes and have good times and eat all they wanted. There was
no devastation, no war, no unhappiness, none of the concomitants of
normal living.

It was then that Martin began to realize that either the whole lot of
them were insane, or what Ninian had told him at first was the truth.
They came from the future.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Martin was sixteen, Raymond took him aside for the talk Ninian had
promised five years before.

"The whole thing's all my brother Conrad's fault. You see, he's an
idealist," Raymond explained, pronouncing the last word with distaste.

Martin nodded gravely. He was a quiet boy now, his brief past a dim and
rather ridiculous memory. Who could ever imagine him robbing a grocery
store or wielding a broken bottle now? He still was rather undersized
and he'd read so much that he'd weakened his eyes and had to wear
glasses. His face was pallid, because he spent little time in the sun,
and his speech rather overbred, his mentors from the future having
carefully eradicated all current vulgarities.

"And Conrad really got upset over the way Earth has been exploiting
the not so intelligent life-forms on the other planets," Raymond
continued. "Which _is_ distressing--though, of course, it's not as
if they were people. Besides, the government has been talking about
passing laws to do away with the--well, abuses and things like that,
and I'm sure someday everything will come out all right. However,
Conrad is so impatient."

"I thought, in your world, machines did all the work," Martin suggested.

"I've told you--our world is precisely the same as this one!" Raymond
snapped. "We just come a couple of centuries or so later, that's all.
But remember, our interests are identical. We're virtually the same
people ... although it is amazing what a difference two hundred odd
years of progress and polish can make in a species, isn't it?"

He continued more mildly: "However, even you ought to be able to
understand that we can't make machinery without metal. We need food.
All that sort of thing comes from the out-system planets. And, on those
worlds, it's far cheaper to use native labor than to ship out all that
expensive machinery. After all, if we didn't give the natives jobs, how
would they manage to live?"

"How did they live before? Come to think of it, if you don't work, how
do _you_ live now?... I don't mean in the now for me, but the now for
you," Martin explained laboriously. It was so difficult to live in the
past and think in the future.

"I'm trying to talk to you as if you were an adult," Raymond said, "but
if you will persist in these childish interruptions--"

"I'm sorry," Martin said.

But he wasn't, for by now he had little respect left for any of
his descendants. They were all exceedingly handsome and cultivated
young people, with superior educations, smooth ways of speaking and
considerable self-confidence, but they just weren't very bright. And
he had discovered that Raymond was perhaps the most intelligent of the
lot. Somewhere in that relatively short span of time, his line or--more
frightening--his race had lost something vital.

Unaware of the near-contempt in which his young ancestor held him,
Raymond went on blandly: "Anyhow, Conrad took it upon himself to
feel particularly guilty, because, he decided, if it hadn't been for
the fact that our great-grandfather discovered the super-drive, we
might never have reached the stars. Which is ridiculous--his feeling
guilty, I mean. Perhaps a great-grandfather is responsible for his
great-grandchildren, but a great-grandchild can hardly be held
accountable for his great-grandfather."

"How about a great-great-grandchild?" Martin couldn't help asking.

       *       *       *       *       *

Raymond flushed a delicate pink. "Do you want to hear the rest of this
or don't you?"

"Oh, I do!" Martin said. He had pieced the whole thing together for
himself long since, but he wanted to hear how Raymond would put it.

"Unfortunately, Professor Farkas has just perfected the time
transmitter. Those government scientists are so infernally
officious--always inventing such senseless things. It's supposed to
be hush-hush, but you know how news will leak out when one is always
desperate for a fresh topic of conversation."

Anyhow, Raymond went on to explain, Conrad had bribed one of Farkas'
assistants for a set of the plans. Conrad's idea had been to go back
in time and "eliminate!" their common great-grandfather. In that way,
there would be no space-drive, and, hence, the Terrestrials would never
get to the other planets and oppress the local aborigines.

"Sounds like a good way of dealing with the problem," Martin observed.

Raymond looked annoyed. "It's the _adolescent_ way," he said, "to do
away with it, rather than find a solution. Would you destroy a whole
society in order to root out a single injustice?"

"Not if it were a good one otherwise."

"Well, there's your answer. Conrad got the apparatus built, or perhaps
he built it himself. One doesn't inquire too closely into such
matters. But when it came to the point, Conrad couldn't bear the idea
of eliminating our great-grandfather--because our great-grandfather
was such a _good_ man, you know." Raymond's expressive upper lip
curled. "So Conrad decided to go further back still and get rid of
his great-grandfather's father--who'd been, by all accounts, a pretty
worthless character."

"That would be me, I suppose," Martin said quietly.

Raymond turned a deep rose. "Well, doesn't that just go to prove you
mustn't believe everything you hear?" The next sentence tumbled out in
a rush. "I wormed the whole thing out of him and all of us--the other
cousins and me--held a council of war, as it were, and we decided it
was our moral duty to go back in time ourselves and protect you." He
beamed at Martin.

The boy smiled slowly. "Of course. You had to. If Conrad succeeded in
_eliminating_ me, then none of you would exist, would you?"

Raymond frowned. Then he shrugged cheerfully. "Well, you didn't really
suppose we were going to all this trouble and expense out of sheer
altruism, did you?" he asked, turning on the charm which all the
cousins possessed to a consternating degree.

       *       *       *       *       *

Martin had, of course, no illusions on that score; he had learned long
ago that nobody did anything for nothing. But saying so was unwise.

"We bribed another set of plans out of another of the professor's
assistants," Raymond continued, as if Martin had answered,
"and--ah--induced a handicraft enthusiast to build the gadget for us."

_Induced_, Martin knew, could have meant anything from blackmail to the
use of the iron maiden.

"Then we were all ready to forestall Conrad. If one of us guarded you
night and day, he would never be able to carry out his plot. So we made
our counter-plan, set the machine as far back as it would go--and here
we are!"

"I see," Martin said.

Raymond didn't seem to think he really did. "After all," he pointed
out defensively, "whatever our motives, it has turned into a good
thing for you. Nice home, cultured companions, all the contemporary
conveniences, plus some handy anachronisms--I don't see what more you
could ask for. You're getting the best of all possible worlds. Of
course Ninian _was_ a ninny to locate in a mercantile suburb where any
little thing out of the way will cause talk. How thankful I am that our
era has completely disposed of the mercantiles--"

"What did you do with them?" Martin asked.

But Raymond rushed on: "Soon as Ninian goes and I'm in full charge,
we'll get a more isolated place and run it on a far grander scale.
Ostentation--that's the way to live here and now; the richer you are,
the more eccentricity you can get away with. And," he added, "I might
as well be as comfortable as possible while I suffer through this
wretched historical stint."

"So Ninian's going," said Martin, wondering why the news made him feel
curiously desolate. Because, although he supposed he liked her in a
remote kind of way, he had no fondness for her--or she, he knew, for
him.

"Well, five years is rather a long stretch for any girl to spend in
exile," Raymond explained, "even though our life spans are a bit longer
than yours. Besides, you're getting too old now to be under petticoat
government." He looked inquisitively at Martin. "You're not going to
go all weepy and make a scene when she leaves, are you?"

"No...." Martin said hesitantly. "Oh, I suppose I will miss her. But we
aren't very close, so it won't make a real difference." That was the
sad part: he already knew it wouldn't make a difference.

Raymond clapped him on the shoulder. "I knew you weren't a sloppy
sentimentalist like Conrad. Though you do have rather a look of him,
you know."

Suddenly that seemed to make Conrad real. Martin felt a vague stirring
of alarm. He kept his voice composed, however. "How do you plan to
protect me when he comes?"

"Well, each one of us is armed to the teeth, of course," Raymond said
with modest pride, displaying something that looked like a child's
combination spaceman's gun and death ray, but which, Martin had no
doubt, was a perfectly genuine--and lethal--weapon. "And we've got a
rather elaborate burglar alarm system."

Martin inspected the system and made one or two changes in the wiring
which, he felt, would increase its efficiency. But still he was
dubious. "Maybe it'll work on someone coming from outside this _house_,
but do you think it will work on someone coming from outside this
_time_?"

"Never fear--it has a temporal radius," Raymond replied. "Factory
guarantee and all that."

"Just to be on the safe side," Martin said, "I think I'd better have
one of those guns, too."

"A splendid idea!" enthused Raymond. "I was just about to think of that
myself!"

       *       *       *       *       *

When it came time for the parting, it was Ninian who cried--tears at
her own inadequacy, Martin knew, not of sorrow. He was getting skillful
at understanding his descendants, far better than they at understanding
him. But then they never really tried. Ninian kissed him wetly on the
cheek and said she was sure everything would work out all right and
that she'd come see him again. She never did, though, except at the
very last.

Raymond and Martin moved into a luxurious mansion in a remote area. The
site proved a well-chosen one; when the Second Atomic War came, half a
dozen years later, they weren't touched. Martin was never sure whether
this had been sheer luck or expert planning. Probably luck, because his
descendants were exceedingly inept planners.

Few people in the world then could afford to live as stylishly as
Martin and his guardian. The place not only contained every possible
convenience and gadget but was crammed with bibelots and antiques,
carefully chosen by Raymond and disputed by Martin, for, to the man
from the future, all available artifacts were antiques. Otherwise,
Martin accepted his new surroundings. His sense of wonder had become
dulled by now and the pink pseudo-Spanish castle--"architecturally
dreadful, of course," Raymond had said, "but so hilariously
typical"--impressed him far less than had the suburban split-level
aquarium.

"How about a moat?" Martin suggested when they first came. "It seems to
go with a castle."

"Do you think a moat could stop Conrad?" Raymond asked, amused.

"No," Martin smiled, feeling rather silly, "but it would make the place
seem safer somehow."

The threat of Conrad was beginning to make him grow more and more
nervous. He got Raymond's permission to take two suits of armor that
stood in the front hall and present them to a local museum, because
several times he fancied he saw them move. He also became an adept with
the ray gun and changed the surrounding landscape quite a bit with it,
until Raymond warned that this might lead Conrad to them.

During those early years, Martin's tutors were exchanged for the
higher-degreed ones that were now needful. The question inevitably
arose of what the youth's vocation in that life was going to be. At
least twenty of the cousins came back through time to hold one of
their vigorous family councils. Martin was still young enough to enjoy
such occasions, finding them vastly superior to all other forms of
entertainment.

       *       *       *       *       *

"This sort of problem wouldn't arise in our day, Martin," Raymond
commented as he took his place at the head of the table, "because,
unless one specifically feels a call to some profession or other, one
just--well, drifts along happily."

"Ours is a wonderful world," Grania sighed at Martin. "I only wish we
could take you there. I'm sure you would like it."

"Don't be a fool, Grania!" Raymond snapped. "Well, Martin, have you
made up your mind what you want to be?"

Martin affected to think. "A physicist," he said, not without malice.
"Or perhaps an engineer."

There was a loud, excited chorus of dissent. He chuckled inwardly.

"Can't do that," Ives said. "Might pick up some concepts from us. Don't
know how; none of us knows a thing about science. But it could happen.
Subconscious osmosis, if there is such a thing. That way, you might
invent something ahead of time. And the fellow we got the plans from
particularly cautioned us against that. Changing history. Dangerous."

"Might mess up our time frightfully," Bartholomew contributed, "though,
to be perfectly frank, I can't quite understand how."

"I am not going to sit down and explain the whole thing to you all over
again, Bart!" Raymond said impatiently. "Well, Martin?"

"What would you suggest?" Martin asked.

"How about becoming a painter? Art is eternal. And quite gentlemanly.
Besides, artists are always expected to be either behind or ahead of
their times."

"Furthermore," Ottillie added, "one more artist couldn't make much
difference in history. There were so many of them all through the ages."

Martin couldn't hold back his question. "What was I, actually, in that
other time?"

There was a chilly silence.

"Let's not talk about it, dear," Lalage finally said. "Let's just be
thankful we've saved you from _that_!"

So drawing teachers were engaged and Martin became a very competent
second-rate artist. He knew he would never be able to achieve first
rank because, even though he was still so young, his work was almost
purely intellectual. The only emotion he seemed able to feel was
fear--the ever-present fear that someday he would turn a corridor and
walk into a man who looked like him--a man who wanted to kill him for
the sake of an ideal.

But the fear did not show in Martin's pictures. They were pretty
pictures.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cousin Ives--now that Martin was older, he was told to call the
descendants _cousin_--next assumed guardianship. Ives took his
responsibilities more seriously than the others did. He even arranged
to have Martin's work shown at an art gallery. The paintings received
critical approval, but failed to evoke any enthusiasm. The modest
sale they enjoyed was mostly to interior decorators. Museums were not
interested.

"Takes time," Ives tried to reassure him. "One day they'll be buying
your pictures, Martin. Wait and see."

Ives was the only one of the descendants who seemed to think of Martin
as an individual. When his efforts to make contact with the other young
man failed, he got worried and decided that what Martin needed was a
change of air and scenery.

"'Course you can't go on the Grand Tour. Your son hasn't invented
space travel yet. But we can go see this world. What's left of it.
Tourists always like ruins best, anyway."

So he drew on the family's vast future resources and bought a yacht,
which Martin christened _The Interregnum_. They traveled about from sea
to ocean and from ocean to sea, touching at various ports and making
trips inland. Martin saw the civilized world--mostly in fragments; the
nearly intact semi-civilized world and the uncivilized world, much the
same as it had been for centuries. It was like visiting an enormous
museum; he couldn't seem to identify with his own time any more.

The other cousins appeared to find the yacht a congenial head-quarters,
largely because they could spend so much time far away from the
contemporary inhabitants of the planet and relax and be themselves. So
they never moved back to land. Martin spent the rest of his life on
_The Interregnum_. He felt curiously safer from Conrad there, although
there was no valid reason why an ocean should stop a traveler through
time.

More cousins were in residence at once than ever before, because
they came for the ocean voyage. They spent most of their time aboard
ship, giving each other parties and playing an _avant-garde_ form of
shuffleboard and gambling on future sporting events. That last usually
ended in a brawl, because one cousin was sure to accuse another of
having got advance information about the results.

Martin didn't care much for their company and associated with them only
when not to have done so would have been palpably rude. And, though
they were gregarious young people for the most part, they didn't court
his society. He suspected that he made them feel uncomfortable.

       *       *       *       *       *

He rather liked Ives, though. Sometimes the two of them would be alone
together; then Ives would tell Martin of the future world he had come
from. The picture drawn by Raymond and Ninian had not been entirely
accurate, Ives admitted. True, there was no war or poverty on Earth
proper, but that was because there were only a couple of million people
left on the planet. It was an enclave for the highly privileged, highly
interbred aristocracy, to which Martin's descendants belonged by virtue
of their distinguished ancestry.

"Rather feudal, isn't it?" Martin asked.

Ives agreed, adding that the system had, however, been deliberately
planned, rather than the result of haphazard natural development.
Everything potentially unpleasant, like the mercantiles, had been
deported.

"Not only natives livin' on the other worlds," Ives said as the two
of them stood at the ship's rail, surrounded by the limitless expanse
of some ocean or other. "People, too. Mostly lower classes, except
for officials and things. With wars and want and suffering," he added
regretfully, "same as in your day.... Like now, I mean," he corrected
himself. "Maybe it _is_ worse, the way Conrad thinks. More planets
for us to make trouble on. Three that were habitable aren't any more.
Bombed. Very thorough job."

"Oh," Martin murmured, trying to sound shocked, horrified--interested,
even.

"Sometimes I'm not altogether sure Conrad was wrong," Ives said, after
a pause. "Tried to keep us from getting to the stars, hurting the
people--I expect you could call them people--there. Still--" he smiled
shamefacedly--"couldn't stand by and see my own way of life destroyed,
could I?"

"I suppose not," Martin said.

"Would take moral courage. I don't have it. None of us does, except
Conrad, and even he--" Ives looked out over the sea. "Must be a better
way out than Conrad's," he said without conviction. "And everything
will work out all right in the end. Bound to. No sense to--to anything,
if it doesn't." He glanced wistfully at Martin.

"I hope so," said Martin. But he couldn't hope; he couldn't feel; he
couldn't even seem to care.

During all this time, Conrad still did not put in an appearance. Martin
had gotten to be such a crack shot with the ray pistol that he almost
wished his descendant would show up, so there would be some excitement.
But he didn't come. And Martin got to thinking....

He always felt that if any of the cousins could have come to realize
the basic flaw in the elaborate plan they had concocted, it would have
been Ives. However, when the yacht touched at Tierra del Fuego one
bitter winter, Ives took a severe chill. They sent for a doctor from
the future--one of the descendants who had been eccentric enough to
take a medical degree--but he wasn't able to save Ives. The body was
buried in the frozen ground at Ushuaia, on the southern tip of the
continent, a hundred years or more before the date of his birth.

A great many of the cousins turned up at the simple ceremony. All were
dressed in overwhelming black and showed a great deal of grief. Raymond
read the burial service, because they didn't dare summon a clerical
cousin from the future; they were afraid he might prove rather stuffy
about the entire undertaking.

"He died for all of us," Raymond concluded his funeral eulogy over
Ives, "so his death was not in vain."

But Martin disagreed.

       *       *       *       *       *

The ceaseless voyaging began again. _The Interregnum_ voyaged to every
ocean and every sea. Some were blue and some green and some dun. After
a while, Martin couldn't tell one from another. Cousin after cousin
came to watch over him and eventually they were as hard for him to tell
apart as the different oceans.

All the cousins were young, for, though they came at different times in
his life, they had all started out from the same time in theirs. Only
the young ones had been included in the venture; they did not trust
their elders.

As the years went by, Martin began to lose even his detached interest
in the land and its doings. Although the yacht frequently touched port
for fuel or supplies--it was more economical to purchase them in that
era than to have them shipped from the future--he seldom went ashore,
and then only at the urging of a newly assigned cousin anxious to see
the sights. Most of the time Martin spent in watching the sea--and
sometimes he painted it. There seemed to be a depth to his seascapes
that his other work lacked.

When he was pressed by the current cousin to make a land visit
somewhere, he decided to exhibit a few of his sea paintings. That way,
he could fool himself into thinking that there was some purpose to this
journey. He'd come to believe that perhaps what his life lacked was
purpose, and for a while he kept looking for meaning everywhere, to the
cousin's utter disgust.

"Eat, drink and be merry, or whatever you Romans say when you do as you
do," the cousin--who was rather woolly in history; the descendants were
scraping bottom now--advised.

Martin showed his work in Italy, so that the cousin could be
disillusioned by the current crop of Romans. He found that neither
purpose nor malice was enough; he was still immeasurably bored.
However, a museum bought two of the paintings. Martin thought of Ives
and felt an uncomfortable pang of a sensation he could no longer
understand.

"Where do you suppose Conrad has been all this time?" Martin idly asked
the current cousin--who was passing as his nephew by now.

The young man jumped, then glanced around him uncomfortably. "Conrad's
a very shrewd fellow," he whispered. "He's biding his time--waiting
until we're off guard. And then--pow!--he'll attack!"

"Oh, I see," Martin said.

He had often fancied that Conrad would prove to be the most stimulating
member of the whole generation. But it seemed unlikely that he would
ever have a chance for a conversation with the young man. More than one
conversation, anyhow.

"When he does show up, I'll protect you," the cousin vowed, touching
his ray gun. "You haven't a thing to worry about."

Martin smiled with all the charm he'd had nothing to do but acquire. "I
have every confidence in you," he told his descendant. He himself had
given up carrying a gun long ago.

There was a war in the Northern Hemisphere and so _The Interregnum_
voyaged to southern waters. There was a war in the south and they hid
out in the Arctic. All the nations became too drained of power--fuel
and man and will--to fight, so there was a sterile peace for a long
time. _The Interregnum_ roamed the seas restlessly, with her load of
passengers from the future, plus one bored and aging contemporary. She
bore big guns now, because of the ever-present danger of pirates.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps it was the traditionally bracing effect of sea air--perhaps it
was the sheltered life--but Martin lived to be a very old man. He was a
hundred and four when his last illness came. It was a great relief when
the family doctor, called in again from the future, said there was no
hope. Martin didn't think he could have borne another year of life.

All the cousins gathered at the yacht to pay their last respects to
their progenitor. He saw Ninian again, after all these years, and
Raymond--all the others, dozens of them, thronging around his bed,
spilling out of the cabin and into the passageways and out onto the
deck, making their usual clamor, even though their voices were hushed.

Only Ives was missing. He'd been the lucky one, Martin knew. He had
been spared the tragedy that was going to befall these blooming young
people--all the same age as when Martin had last seen them and doomed
never to grow any older. Underneath their masks of woe, he could see
relief at the thought that at last they were going to be rid of their
responsibility. And underneath Martin's death mask lay an impersonal
pity for those poor, stupid descendants of his who had blundered so
irretrievably.

There was only one face which Martin had never seen before. It wasn't
a strange face, however, because Martin had seen one very like it in
the looking glass when he was a young man.

"You must be Conrad," Martin called across the cabin in a voice that
was still clear. "I've been looking forward to meeting you for some
time."

The other cousins whirled to face the newcomer.

"You're too late, Con," Raymond gloated for the whole generation. "He's
lived out his life."

"But he hasn't lived out his life," Conrad contradicted. "He's lived
out the life _you_ created for him. And for yourselves, too."

For the first time, Martin saw compassion in the eyes of one of his
lineage and found it vaguely disturbing. It didn't seem to belong there.

"Don't you realize even yet," Conrad went on, "that as soon as he goes,
you'll go, too--present, past, future, wherever you are, you'll go up
in the air like puffs of smoke?"

"What do you mean?" Ninian quavered, her soft, pretty face alarmed.

Martin answered Conrad's rueful smile, but left the explanations up to
him. It was his show, after all.

"Because you will never have existed," Conrad said. "You have no right
to existence; it was you yourselves who watched him all the time,
so he didn't have a chance to lead a normal life, get married, _have
children_...."

       *       *       *       *       *

Most of the cousins gasped as the truth began to percolate through.

"I knew from the very beginning," Conrad finished, "that I didn't
have to do anything at all. I just had to wait and you would destroy
yourselves."

"I don't understand," Bartholomew protested, searching the faces of the
cousins closest to him. "What does he mean, we have never existed?
We're here, aren't we? What--"

"Shut up!" Raymond snapped. He turned on Martin. "You don't seem
surprised."

The old man grinned. "I'm not. I figured it all out years ago."

At first, he had wondered what he should do. Would it be better to
throw them into a futile panic by telling them or to do nothing? He
had decided on the latter; that was the role they had assigned him--to
watch and wait and keep out of things--and that was the role he would
play.

"You knew all the time and you didn't tell us!" Raymond spluttered.
"After we'd been so good to you, making a gentleman out of you instead
of a criminal.... That's right," he snarled, "a criminal! An alcoholic,
a thief, a derelict! How do you like that?"

"Sounds like a rich, full life," Martin said wistfully.

What an exciting existence they must have done him out of! But then, he
couldn't help thinking, he--he and Conrad together, of course--had done
them out of _any_ kind of existence. It wasn't his responsibility,
though; he had done nothing but let matters take whatever course was
destined for them. If only he could be sure that it was the better
course, perhaps he wouldn't feel that nagging sense of guilt inside
him. Strange--where, in his hermetic life, could he possibly have
developed such a queer thing as a conscience?

"Then we've wasted all this time," Ninian sobbed, "all this energy, all
this money, for nothing!"

"But you were nothing to begin with," Martin told them. And then,
after a pause, he added, "I only wish I could be sure there had been
some purpose to this."

He didn't know whether it was approaching death that dimmed his sight,
or whether the frightened crowd that pressed around him was growing
shadowy.

"I wish I could feel that some good had been done in letting you be
wiped out of existence," he went on voicing his thoughts. "But I know
that the same thing that happened to your worlds and my world will
happen all over again. To other people, in other times, but again. It's
bound to happen. There isn't any hope for humanity."

One man couldn't really change the course of human history, he told
himself. Two men, that was--one real, one a shadow.

Conrad came close to the old man's bed. He was almost transparent.

"No," he said, "there is hope. They didn't know the time transmitter
works two ways. I used it for going into the past only once--just this
once. But I've gone into the future with it many times. And--" he
pressed Martin's hand--"believe me, what I did--what _we_ did, you and
I--serves a purpose. It will change things for the better. Everything
is going to be all right."

       *       *       *       *       *

Was Conrad telling him the truth, Martin wondered, or was he just
giving the conventional reassurance to the dying? More than that, was
he trying to convince himself that what he had done was the right
thing? Every cousin had assured Martin that things were going to be all
right.

Was Conrad _actually_ different from the rest?

His plan had worked and the others' hadn't, but then all his plan had
consisted of was doing nothing. That was all he and Martin had done ...
nothing. Were they absolved of all responsibility merely because they
had stood aside and taken advantage of the others' weaknesses?

"Why," Martin said to himself, "in a sense, it could be said that I
have fulfilled my original destiny--that I am a criminal."

Well, it didn't matter; whatever happened, no one could hold him to
blame. He held no stake in the future that was to come. It was other
men's future--other men's problem. He died very peacefully then, and,
since he was the only one left on the ship, there was nobody to bury
him.

The unmanned yacht drifted about the seas for years and gave rise to
many legends, none of them as unbelievable as the truth.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Man Outside, by Evelyn E. Smith

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE MAN OUTSIDE ***

***** This file should be named 51337.txt or 51337.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/3/3/51337/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
