The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Spicy Sound of Success, by Jim Harmon

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: The Spicy Sound of Success

Author: Jim Harmon

Release Date: March 3, 2016 [EBook #51351]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SPICY SOUND OF SUCCESS ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                      THE SPICY SOUND OF SUCCESS

                             By JIM HARMON

                      Illustrated by DICK FRANCIS

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                     Galaxy Magazine August 1959.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




             Now was the captain's chance to prove he knew
           less than the crew--all their lives hung upon it!


There was nothing showing on the video screen. That was why we were
looking at it so analytically.

"Transphasia, that's what it is," Ordinary Spaceman Quade stated with
a definite thrust of his angular jaw in my direction. "You can take my
word on that, Captain Gavin."

"Can't," I told him. "I can't trust your opinion. I can't trust
_anything_. That's why I'm Captain."

"You'll get over feeling like that."

"I know. Then I'll become First Officer."

"But look at that screen, sir," Quade said with an emphatic swing of
his scarred arm. "I've seen blank scanning like that before and you
haven't--it's your first trip. This always means transphasia--cortex
dissolution, motor area feedback, the Aitchell Effect--call it anything
you like, it's still transphasia."

"I know what transphasia is," I said moderately. "It means an
electrogravitational disturbance of incoming sense data, rechanneling
it to the wrong receptive areas. Besides the human brain, it also
effects electronic equipment, like radar and television."

"Obviously." Quade glanced disgustedly at the screen.

"Too obvious. This time it might not be a familiar condition of many
planetary gravitational fields. On this planet, that blank kinescope
may mean our Big Brother kites were knocked down by hostile natives."

"You are plain wrong, Captain. Traditionally, alien races never
interfere with our explorations. Generally, they are so alien to us
they can't even recognize our existence."

       *       *       *       *       *

I drew myself up to my full height--and noticed in irritation it was
still an inch less than Quade's. "I don't understand you men. Look at
yourself, Quade. You've been busted to Ordinary Spaceman for just that
kind of thinking, for relying on tradition, on things that have worked
before. Not only your thinking is slipshod, you've grown careless about
everything else, even your own life."

"Just a minute, Captain. I've never been 'busted.' In the Exploration
Service, we regard Ordinary Spaceman as our highest rank. With my
hazard pay, I get more hard cash than _you_ do, and I'm closer to
retirement."

"That's a shallow excuse for complacency."

"Complacency! I've seen ten thousand wonders in twenty years of space,
with a million variations. But the patterns repeat themselves. We learn
to know what to expect, so maybe we can't maintain the reactionary
caution the service likes in officers."

"I resent the word 'reactionary,' Spaceman! In civilian life, I was
a lapidary and I learned the value of deliberation. But I never got
too cataleptic to tap a million-dollar gem, which is more than my
contemporaries can say, many of 'em."

"Captain Gavin," Quade said patiently, "you must realize that an
outsider like you, among a crew of skilled spacemen, can never be more
than a figurehead."

Was this the way I was to be treated? Why, this man had deliberately
insulted me, his captain. I controlled myself, remembering the
familiarity that had always existed between members of a crew working
under close conditions, from the time of the ancient submarines and the
first orbital ships.

"Quade," I said, "there's only one way for us to find out which of us
is right about the cause of our scanning blackout."

"We go out and find the reason."

"Exactly. We go. You and me. I hope you can stand my company."

"I'm not sure I can," he answered reluctantly. "My hazard pay doesn't
cover exploring with rookies. With all due respect, Captain."

I clapped him on the shoulder. "But, man, you have just been telling
me all we had to worry about was common transphasia. A man with your
experience could protect himself and cover even a rookie, under such
familiar conditions--right?"

"Yes, sir, I suppose I could," Quade said, bitterly aware he had lost
out somewhere and hoping that it wasn't the start of a trend.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Looks okay to me," I said. Quade passed a gauntlet over his faceplate.
"It's real. I can blur it with a smudged visor. When it blurs, it's
solid."

The landscape beyond the black corona left by our landing rockets was
unimpressive. The rocky desert was made up of silicon and iron oxide,
so it looked much the same as a terrestrial location. Yellowish-white
sand ran up to and around reddish brown rock clawing into the pink
sunlight.

"I don't understand it," Quade admitted. "Transphasia hits you a foul
as soon as you let it into the airlock."

"Apparently, Quade, _this_ thing is going to creep up on us."

"Don't sound smug, Captain. It's pitty-pattying behind you too."

The keening call across the surface of consciousness postponed my reply.

The wail was ominously forlorn, defiant of description. I turned my
head around slowly inside my helmet, not even sure that I had heard it.

But what else can you do with a wail but _hear_ it?

Quade nodded. "I've felt this before. It usually hits sooner. Let's
trace it."

"I don't like this," I admitted. "It's not at all what I expected from
what you said about transphasia. It must be something else."

"It couldn't be anything else. I know what to expect. You don't. You
may begin smelling sensations, tasting sounds, hearing sights, seeing
tastes, touching odors--or any other combination. Don't let it bother
you."

"Of course not. I'll soothe my nerves by counting little shocks of
lanolin jumping over a loud fence."

Quade grinned behind his faceplate. "Good idea."

"Then you can have it. I'm going to try keeping my eyes open and
staying alive."

There was no reply.

His expression was tart and greasy despite all his light talk, and
I knew mine was the same. I tested the security rope between our
pressure suits. It was a taut and virile bass.

We scaled a staccato of rocks, our suits grinding pepper against our
hides.

The musk summit rose before us, a minor-key horizon with a shifting
treble for as far as I could smell. It was primitive beauty that made
you feel shocking pink inside. The most beautiful vista I had ever
tasted, it couldn't be dulled even by the sensation of beef broth under
my skin.

"Is this transphasia?" I asked in awe.

"It always has been before," Quade remarked. "Ready to swallow your
words about this being something an old hand wouldn't recognize,
Captain?"

"I'm swallowing no words until I find out precisely how they taste
here."

"Not a bad taste. They're pretty. Or haven't you noticed?"

"Quade, you're right! About the colors anyway. This reminds me of an
illiscope recording from a cybernetic translator."

"It should. I don't suppose we could understand each other if it wasn't
for our morphistudy courses in reading cross-sense translations of
Centauri blushtalk and the like."

It became difficult to understand him, difficult to try talking in the
face of such splendor. You never really appreciate colors until you
smell them for the first time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Quade was as conversational as ever, though. "I can't see
irregularities occurring in a gravitational field. We must have
compensated for the transphasia while we still had a point of
reference, the solid reality of the spaceship. But out here, where all
we have to hang onto is each other, our concept of reality goes _bang_
and deflates to a tired joke."

Before I could agree with one of his theories for once, a streak of
spice shot past us. It bounced back tangily and made a bitter rip
between the two of us. There was no time to judge its size, if it had
size, or its decibel range, or its caloric count, before a small, sharp
pain dug in and dwindled down to nothing in one long second.

The new odor pattern in my head told me Quade was saying something I
couldn't quite make out.

Quade then pulled me in the direction of the nasty little pain.

"Wait a minute, Spaceman!" I bellowed. "Where the devil do you think
you're dragging me? Halt! That's a direct order."

He stopped. "Don't you want to find out what that was? This _is_ an
exploration party, you know, sir."

"I'm not sure I do want to find out what that was just now. I didn't
like the feel of it. But the important thing is for us not to get any
further from the ship."

"That's important, Captain?"

"To the best of my judgment, yes. This--condition--didn't begin until
we got so far away from the spacer--in time or distance. I don't want
it to get any worse. It's troublesome not to know black from white, but
it would be a downright inconvenience not to know which way is up."

"Not for an experienced spaceman," Quade griped. "I'm used to
free-fall."

But he turned back.

"Just a minute," I said. "There was something strange up ahead. I want
to see if short-range radar can get through our electrogravitational
jamming here."

I took a sighting. My helmet set projected the pattern on the cornea.
Sweetness building up to a stab of pure salt--those were the blips.

Beside me, there was a thin thread of violet. Quade had whistled. He
was reading the map too.

The slope fell away sharply in front of us, becoming a deep gorge.
There was something broken and twisted at the bottom, something we had
known for an instant as a streak of spice.

"There's one free-fall," I said, "where you wouldn't live long enough
to get used to it."

He said nothing on the route back to the spacer.

       *       *       *       *       *

"I know all about this sort of thing, Gav," First Officer Nagurski said
expansively. He was rubbing the well-worn ears of our beagle mascot,
Bruce. A heavy tail thudded on the steel deck from time to time.

My finger could barely get in the chafing band of my regulation collar.
I was hot and tired, fresh--in only the chronological sense--from a
pressure suit.

"What do you know all about, Nagurski? Dogs? Spacemen? Women?
Transphasia?"

"Yes," he answered casually. "But I had immediate reference to our
current psychophysiological phenomenon."

I collapsed into the swivel in front of the chart table. "First off,
let's hear what you know about--never mind, make it dogs."

"Take Bruce, for example, then--"

"No, thanks. I was wondering why _you_ did."

"I didn't." His dark, round face was bland. "Bruce picked me. Followed
me home one night in Chicago Port. The dog or the man who picks his own
master is the most content."

"Bruce is content," I admitted. "He couldn't be any more content and
still be alive. But I'm not sure that theory works out with men. We'd
have anarchy if I tried to let these starbucks pick their own master."

"_I_ had no trouble when I was a captain," Nagurski said. "Ease the
reins on the men. Just offer them your advice, your guidance. They
will soon see why the service selected you as captain; they will pick
you themselves."

"Did your crew voluntarily elect you as their leader?"

"Of course they did, Gav. I'm an old hand at controlling crews."

"Then why are you First Officer under me now?"

He blinked, then decided to laugh. "I've been in space a good many
years. I really wanted to relax a little bit more. Besides, the
increase in hazard pay was actually more than my salary as a captain.
I'm a notch nearer retirement too."

"Tell me, did you always feel this way about letting the men select
their own leader?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Nagurski brought out a pipe. He would have a pipe, I decided.

"No, not always. I was like you at first. Fresh from the cosmic energy
test lab, suspicious of everything, trying to tell the old hands what
to do. But I learned that they are pretty smart boys; they know what
they are doing. You can rely on them absolutely."

I leaned forward, elbows on knees. "Let me tell _you_ a thing,
Nagurski. Your trust of these damn-fool spacemen is why you are no
longer a captain. You can't trust anything out here in space, much less
human nature. Even I know that much!"

He was pained. "If you don't trust the men, they won't trust you, Gav."

"They don't have to trust me. All they have to do is _obey_ me or, by
Jupiter, get frozen stiff and thawed out just in time for court-marshal
back home. Listen," I continued earnestly, "these men aren't going to
think of me--of _us_, the officers, as their leaders. As far as the
crew is concerned, Ordinary Spaceman Quade is the best man on this
ship."

"He _is_ a good man," Nagurski said. "You mustn't be jealous of his
status."

The dog growled. He must have sensed what I almost did to Nagurski.

"Never mind that for now," I said wearily. "What was your idea for
getting our exploration parties through this transphasia?"

"There's only one idea for that," said Quade, ducking his long head
and stepping through the connecting hatch. "With the Captain's
permission...."

"Go ahead, Quade, tell him," Nagurski invited.

"There's only one way to wade through transphasia with any
reliability," Quade told me. "You keep some kind of physical contact
with the spaceship. Parties are strung out on guide line, like we were,
but the cable has to be run back and made fast to the hull."

"How far can we run it back?"

Quade shrugged. "Miles."

"How many?"

"We have three miles of cable. As long as you can feel, taste, see,
smell or hear that rope anchoring you to home, you aren't lost."

"Three miles isn't good enough. We don't have enough fuel to change
sites that often. You can't use the drive in a gravitational field, you
know."

"What else can we do, Captain?" Nagurski asked puzzledly.

"You've said that the spaceship is our only protection from
transphasia. Is that it?"

Quade gave a curt nod.

"Then," I told them, "we will have to start tearing apart this ship."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sergeant-Major Hoffman and his team were doing a good job of ripping
out the side of the afterhold. Through the portal I could see the
suited men expertly guiding the huge curved sections on their ray
projectors.

"Cannibalizing is dangerous." Nagurski put his pipe in his teeth and
shook his head disapprovingly.

"Spaceships have parts as interchangeable as Erector sets. We can
take apart the tractors and put our ship back together again after we
complete the survey."

"You can't assemble a jigsaw puzzle if some of the pieces are missing."

"You can't get a complete picture, but you can get a good idea of
what it looks like. We can take off in a reasonable facsimile of a
spaceship."

"Not," he persisted, "if _too_ many parts are missing."

"Nagurski, if you are looking for a job safer than space exploration,
why don't you go back to testing cosmic bomb shelters?"

Nagurski flushed. "Look here, Captain, you are being too damned
cautious. There is a way one handles the survey of a planet like this,
and this isn't the way."

"It's my way. You heard what Quade said. You know it yourself. The men
have to have something tangible to hang onto out there. One slender
cable isn't enough of an edge on sensory anarchy. If the product of
their own technological civilization can keep them sane, I say let 'em
take a part of that environment with them."

"In departing from standard procedure that we have learned to trust,
you are risking more than a few men--you risk the whole mission in
gambling so much of the ship. A captain doesn't take chances like that!"

"I never said I wouldn't take chances. But I'm not going to take
_stupid_ chances. I _might_ be doing the wrong thing, but I can see you
_would_ be doing it wrong."

"You know nothing about space, Captain! You have to trust _us_."

"That's it exactly, First Officer Nagurski," I said sociably. "If you
lazy, lax, complacent slobs want to do something in a particular way, I
know it _has_ to be wrong."

I turned and found Wallace, the personnel man, standing in the hatchway.

"Pardon, Captain, but would you say we also lacked initiative?"

"I would," I answered levelly.

"Then you'll be interested to hear that Spaceman Quade took a suit and
a cartographer unit. He's out there somewhere, alone."

"The idiot!" I yelped. "Everyone needs a partner out there. Send out a
team to follow his cable and drag him in here by it."

"He didn't hook on a cable, Captain," Wallace said. "I suppose he
intended to go beyond the three-mile limit as you demanded."

"Shut up, Wallace. You don't have to like me, but you can't twist what
I said as long as I command this spacer."

"Cool off, Gav," Nagurski advised me. "It's been done before. Anybody
else would have been a fool to go out alone, but Quade is the most
experienced man we have. He knows transphasia. Trust him."

"I trusted him too far by letting him run around loose. He needs a
leash in more ways than one, and I'm going to put one on him."

       *       *       *       *       *

For me, it was a nightmare. I lay down in my cabin and thought. I had
to think things through very carefully. One mistake was too many for
me. My worst fear had been that someday I would overlook one tiny flaw
and ruin a gem. Now I might have ruined an exploration and destroyed a
man, not a stone, because I had missed the flaw.

No one but a reckless fool would have gone out alone on a strange
planet with a terrifying phenomenon, but I'd had enough evidence to see
that space exploration _made_ a man a reckless fool by doing things on
one planet he had once found safe and wise on some other world.

The thought intruded itself: _why_ hadn't I recognized this before I
let Quade escape to almost certain death? Wasn't it because I wanted
him dead, because I resented the crew's resentment of my authority, and
recognized in him the leader and symbol of this resentment?

I threw away that idea along with my half-used cigarette. It might very
well be true, but how did that help now?

I had to _think_.

I was going after him, that was certain. Not only for humane
reasons--he was the most important member of the crew. With him around,
there were only two opinions, his and mine. Without him, I'd have
endless opinions to contend with.

But it wouldn't do any good to go out no better equipped than he.
There was no time to wait for tractors to be built if we wanted to
reach him alive, and we certainly couldn't reach him five or ten
miles out with our three miles of safety line. We would have to go in
spacesuits.

But how would that leave us any better off than Quade?

Why was Quade vulnerable in his spacesuit, as I knew from experience he
would be?

How could we be less vulnerable, or preferably invulnerable?

       *       *       *       *       *

"Captain, you got nothing to worry about," Quartermaster Farley said.
He patted a space helmet paternally. "You got yourself a self-contained
environment. The suit's eye looks into yours at the arteries in the
back of your eyeball so it can read your amber corpuscles and feed
you your oxygen in the right amounts; you're a bottle-fed baby. If
transphasia gets you seeing limburger, turn on the radar and you're
air-conditioned as an igloo. Nothing short of a cosmic blast can dent
that hide. You got it made."

"You are right," I said, "only transphasia comes right through these
air-fast joints."

"Something strange about the trance, Captain," Farley said darkly. "Any
spaceman can tell you that. Things we don't understand."

"I'm talking about something we do understand--_sound_. These suits
perfectly soundproof?"

"Well, you can pick up sound by conduction. Like putting two helmets
together and talking without using radio. You can't insulate enough to
block out all sound and still have a man-shaped suit. You have--"

"I know. Then you have something like a tractor or a miniature
spaceship. There isn't time for that. We will have to live with the
sound."

"What do you think he's going to hear out there, Captain? We'd like to
find one of those beautiful sirens on some planet, believe me, but--"

"I believe you," I said quickly. "Let's leave it at that. I don't know
what he will hear; what's worrying me is _how_ he'll hear it, in what
sensory medium. I hope the sound doesn't blind him. His radar is his
only chance."

"How do you figure on getting a better edge yourself, sir?"

"I have the idea, but not the word for it. Tonal compensation, I
suppose. If you can't shut out the noise, we'll have to drown it out."

Farley nodded. "Beat like a telephone time signal?"

"That would do it."

"It would do something else. It would drive you nuts."

       *       *       *       *       *

I shrugged. "It might be distracting."

"Captain, take my word for it," argued Farley. "Constant sonic
feedback inside a spacesuit will set you rocking against the grain."

"Devise some regular system of interruptions," I suggested.

"Then the pattern will drive you crazy. Maybe in a few months, with
luck, I could plan some harmonic scale you could tolerate--"

"We don't have a few months," I said. "How about music? There's a
harmonic scale for you, and we can endure it, some of it. _Figaro_ and
_Asleep in the Cradle of the Deep_ can compensate for high-pitched
outside temperatures, and _Flight of the Bumble Bee_ to block bass
notes."

Farley nodded. "Might work. I can program the tapes from the library."

"Good. There's one more thing--how are our stores of medicinal liquor?"

Farley paled. "Captain, are you implying that _I_ should be running
short on alcohol? Where do you get off suggesting a thing like that?"

"I'm getting off at the right stop, apparently," I sighed. "Okay,
Farley, no evasions. In plain figures, how much drinking alcohol do we
have left?"

The quartermaster slumped a bit. "Twenty-one liters unbroken. One more
about half full."

"Half full? How did that ever happen? I mean you had some _left_? We'll
take this up later. I want you to run it through the synthesizer to get
some light wine...."

"Light wine?" Farley looked in pain. "Not whiskey, brandy, beer?"

"Light wine. Then ration it out to some of the men."

"Ration it to the men!"

"That's an accurate interpretation of my orders."

"But, sir," Farley protested, "you don't give alcohol to the crew in
the middle of a mission. It's not done. What reason can you have?"

"To sharpen their taste and olfactory senses. We can turn up or block
out sound. We can use radar to extend our sight, but the Space Service
hasn't yet developed anything to make spacemen taste or smell better."

"They are going to smell like a herd of winos," Farley said. "I don't
like to think how they would taste."

"It's an entirely practical idea. Tea-tasters used to drink
almond-and-barley water to sharpen their senses. I've observed that
wine helps you appreciate culinary art more. Considering the mixed-up
sensory data under transphasia, wine may help us to see where we are
going."

"Yes, sir," Farley said obediently. "I'll give spacemen a few quarts of
wine, telling them to use it carefully for scientific purposes only,
and then they will be able to see where they are going. Yes, sir."

I turned to leave, then paused briefly. "You can come along, Farley.
I'm sure you want to see that we don't waste any of the stuff."

       *       *       *       *       *

"There they are!" Nagurski called. "Quade's footsteps again, just
beyond that rocky ridge."

The landscape was rich chocolate ice cream smothered with chocolate
syrup, caramel, peanuts and maple syrup, eaten while you smoked an old,
mellow Havana. The footsteps were faint traces of whipped cream across
the dark, rich taste of the planet.

I splashed some wine from my drinking tube against the roof of my mouth
to sharpen my taste. It brought out the footsteps sharper. It also made
the landscape more of a teen-ager's caloric nightmare.

The four of us pulled ourselves closer together by reeling in more
of our safety line. Farley and Hoffman, Nagurski and myself, we were
cabled together. It gave us a larger hunk of reality to hold onto. Even
so, things wavered for me during a wisp of time.

We stumbled over the ridge, feeling out the territory. It was a sticky
job crawling over a melting, chunk-style Hershey bar. I was thankful
for the invigorating Sousa march blasting inside my helmet. Before the
tape had cut in, kicked on by the decibel gauge, I had heard or felt
something dark and ominous in the outside air.

"Yes, this is definitely the trail of Quail," Nagurski said soberly.
"This is serious business. I must ask whoever has been giggling on
this channel to shut up. Pardon me, Captain. _You_ weren't giggling,
sir?"

"I have never giggled in my life, Nagurski."

"Yes, sir. That's what we all thought."

A moment later, Nagurski added, "Anyway, I just noticed it was my
shelf--my, that is, self."

The basso profundo performing _Figaro_ on my headset climbed to a
girlish shriek. A sliver of ice. This was the call Quade and I had
first heard as we were about to troop over a cliff. I dug in my heels.

"Take a good look around, boys," I said. "What do you see?"

"Quail," Nagurski replied. "That's what I see."

"You," I said carefully, "have been in space a _long_ time. Look again."

"I see our old buddy, Quail."

I took another slosh of burgundy and peered up ahead. It _was_ Quade. A
man in a spacesuit, faceplate in the dust, two hundred yards ahead.

Grudgingly I stepped forward, out of the shadow of the ridge.
A hysterically screaming wind rocked me on my toes. We pushed
on sluggishly to Quade's side, moving to the tempo of _Pomp and
Circumstance_.

Farley lugged Quade over on his back and read his gauges.

The Quartermaster rose with grim deliberation, and hiccuped. "Better
get him back to the spaceship fast. I've seen this kind of thing
before with transphasia. His body cooled down because of the screaming
wind--psychosomatic reaction--and his heating circuits compensated for
the cool flesh. The poor devil's got frostbite and heat prostration."

       *       *       *       *       *

The four of us managed to haul Quade back by using the powered joints
in our suits. Hoffman suggested that he had once seen an injured
man walked back inside his suit like a robot, but it was a delicate
adjustment, controlling power circuits from outside a suit. It was too
much for us--we were too tired, too numb, too drunk.

At first sight of the spacer in the distance, transphasia left me with
only a chocolate-tasting pink after-image on my retina. It was now
showing bare skeleton from cannibalization for tractor parts, but it
looked good to me, like home.

The wailing call sounded through the amber twilight.

I realized that I was actually _hearing_ it for the first time.

The alien stood between us and the ship. It was a great pot-bellied
lizard as tall as a man. Its sound came from a flat, vibrating beaver
tail. Others of its kind were coming into view behind it.

"Stand your ground," I warned the others thickly. "They may be
dangerous."

Quade sat up on our crisscross litter of arms. "Aliens can't be
hostile. Ethnic impossibility. I'll show you."

Quade was delirious and we were drunk. He got away from us and jogged
toward the herd.

"Let's give him a hand!" Farley shouted. "We'll take us a specimen!"

I couldn't stop them. Being in Alpine rope with them, I went along. At
the time, it even seemed vaguely like a good idea.

As we lumbered toward them, the aliens fell back in a solid line except
for the first curious-looking one. Quade got there ahead of us and made
a grab. The creature rose into the air with a screaming vibration of
his tail and landed on top of him, flattening him instantly.

"Sssh, men," Nagurski said. "Leave it to me. I'll surround him."

The men followed the First Officer's example, and the rope tying them
to him. I went along cheerfully myself, until an enormous rump struck
me violently in the face. My leaded boots were driven down into fertile
soil, and my helmet was ringing like a bell. I got a jerky picture of
the beast jumping up and down on top of the others joyously. Only the
stiff space armor was holding up our slack frames.

"Let's let him escape," Hoffman suggested on the audio circuit.

"I'd like to," Nagurski admitted, "but the other beasts won't let us
get past their circle."

It was true. The aliens formed a ring around us, and each time a
bouncing boy hit the line, he only bounced back on top of us.

"Flat!" I yelled. "Our seams can't take much more of this beating."

I followed my own advice and landed in the dirt beside Quade.

The bouncer came to rest and regarded us silently, head on an
eighty-degree angle.

I was stone sober.

The others were lying around me quietly, passed out, knocked out, or
taking cover.

The ring of aliens drew in about us, closer, tighter, as the bouncer
sat on his haunches and waited for us to move.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Feeling better?" I asked Quade in the infirmary.

He punched up his pillow and settled back. "I guess so. But when I
think of all the ways I nearly got myself killed out there.... How far
have you got in the tractors?"

"I'm having the tractors torn down and the parts put back into the
spaceship where they belong. We _shouldn't_ risk losing them and
getting stuck here."

"Are you settling for a primary exploration?"

"No. I think I had the right idea on your rescue party. You have to
meet and fight a planet on its own terms. Fighting confused sounds and
tastes with music and wine was crude, but it was on the right track.
Out there, we understood language because we were familiar with alien
languages changed to other sense mediums by cybernetic translators.
Using the translator, we can learn to recognize all confused data as
easily. I'm starting indoctrination courses."

"I doubt that that is necessary, sir," Quade said. "Experienced
spacemen are experienced with transphasia. You don't have to worry. In
the future, I'll be able to resist sensations that tell me I'm freezing
to death--if my gauges tell me it's a lie."

I examined his bandisprayed hide. "I think my way of gaining experience
is less painful and more efficient."

Quade squirmed. "Yes, sir. One thing, sir--I don't understand how you
got me away from those aliens."

"The aliens were trying to help. They knew something was wrong and they
were prodding and probing. When the first tractor pulled up and the men
got out, they seemed to realize our own people could help us easier
than they could."

"I am not quite convinced that those babies just meant to help us all
the time."

"But they did! First, that call of theirs--it wasn't to lead us into
danger, but to warn us of the cliff, the freezing wind. They saw we
were trying to find out things about their world, so they even offered
us one of their own kind to study. Unfortunately, he was too much for
us. They didn't give us their top man, of course, only the village
idiot. It's just as well. We aren't allowed to dissect creatures that
far up the intelligence scale."

"But why should they want to help us?" Quade demanded suspiciously.

"I think it's like Nagurski's dog. The dog came to him when it wanted
somebody to own it, protect it, feed it, love it. These aliens _want_
Earthmen to colonize the planet. We came here, you see, same as the dog
came to Nagurski."

"Well, I've learned one thing from all of this," Quade said. "I've been
a blind, arrogant, cocksure fool, following courses that were good on
_some_ worlds, _most_ worlds, but not good on _all_ worlds. I'm never
going to be that foolhardy again."

"But you're losing _confidence_, Quade! You aren't sure of yourself any
more. Isn't confidence a spaceman's most valuable asset?"

"The hell it is," Quade said grimly. "It's his deadliest liability."

"In that case, I must inform you that I am demoting you to Acting
Executive Officer."

"Huh?" Quade gawked. "But dammit, Captain, you can't do that to me!
I'll lose hazard pay and be that much further from retirement!"

"That's tough," I sympathized, "but in every service a chap gets broken
in rank now and then."

"Maybe it's worth it," Quade said heavily. "Now maybe I've learned how
to stay alive out here. I just hope I don't forget."

I thought about that. I was nearly through with my first mission and
I could speak with experience, even if it was the least amount of
experience aboard.

"Quade," I said, "space isn't as dangerous as all that." I clapped him
on the shoulder fraternally. "You worry too much!"





End of Project Gutenberg's The Spicy Sound of Success, by Jim Harmon

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SPICY SOUND OF SUCCESS ***

***** This file should be named 51351.txt or 51351.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/3/5/51351/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
