The Project Gutenberg EBook of Hunt the Hunter, by Kris Neville

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license


Title: Hunt the Hunter

Author: Kris Neville

Release Date: March 13, 2016 [EBook #51433]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HUNT THE HUNTER ***




Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                            HUNT the HUNTER

                            BY KRIS NEVILLE

                  Illustrated by ELIZABETH MacINTYRE

           [Transcriber's Note: This etext was produced from
                   Galaxy Science Fiction June 1951.
         Extensive research did not uncover any evidence that
         the U.S. copyright on this publication was renewed.]




                 Of course using live bait is the best
                way to lure dangerous alien animals ...
              unless it turns out that you are the bait!


"We're somewhat to the south, I think," Ri said, bending over the crude
field map. "That ridge," he pointed, "on our left, is right here." He
drew a finger down the map. "It was over here," he moved the finger,
"over the ridge, north of here, that we sighted them."

Extrone asked, "Is there a pass?"

Ri looked up, studying the terrain. He moved his shoulders. "I don't
know, but maybe they range this far. Maybe they're on this side of the
ridge, too."

Delicately, Extrone raised a hand to his beard. "I'd hate to lose a day
crossing the ridge," he said.

"Yes, sir," Ri said. Suddenly he threw back his head. "Listen!"

"Eh?" Extrone said.

"Hear it? That cough? I think that's one, from over there. Right up
ahead of us."

Extrone raised his eyebrows.

This time, the coughing roar was more distant, but distinct.

"It is!" Ri said. "It's a farn beast, all right!"

Extrone smiled, almost pointed teeth showing through the beard. "I'm
glad we won't have to cross the ridge."

Ri wiped his forehead on the back of his sleeve. "Yes, sir."

"We'll pitch camp right here, then," Extrone said. "We'll go after it
tomorrow." He looked at the sky. "Have the bearers hurry."

"Yes, sir."

Ri moved away, his pulse gradually slowing. "You, there!" he called.
"Pitch camp, here!"

He crossed to Mia, who, along with him, had been pressed into Extrone's
party as guides. Once more, Ri addressed the bearers, "Be quick, now!"
And to Mia, "God almighty, he was getting mad." He ran a hand under his
collar. "It's a good thing that farn beast sounded off when it did. I'd
hate to think of making him climb that ridge."

Mia glanced nervously over his shoulder. "It's that damned pilot's
fault for setting us down on this side. I told him it was the other
side. I told him so."

Ri shrugged hopelessly.

Mia said, "I don't think he even saw a blast area over here. I think he
wanted to get us in trouble."

"There shouldn't be one. There shouldn't be a blast area on this side
of the ridge, too."

"That's what I mean. The pilot don't like businessmen. He had it in for
us."

Ri cleared his throat nervously. "Maybe you're right."

"It's the Hunting Club he don't like."

"I wish to God I'd never heard of a farn beast," Ri said. "At least,
then, I wouldn't be one of his guides. Why didn't he hire somebody
else?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Mia looked at his companion. He spat. "What hurts most, he pays us for
it. I could buy half this planet, and he makes me his guide--at less
than I pay my secretary."

"Well, anyway, we won't have to cross that ridge."

"Hey, you!" Extrone called.

The two of them turned immediately.

"You two scout ahead," Extrone said. "See if you can pick up some
tracks."

"Yes, sir," Ri said, and instantly the two of them readjusted their
shoulder straps and started off.

Shortly they were inside of the scrub forest, safe from sight. "Let's
wait here," Mia said.

"No, we better go on. He may have sent a spy in."

They pushed on, being careful to blaze the trees, because they were not
professional guides.

"We don't want to get too near," Ri said after toiling through the
forest for many minutes. "Without guns, we don't want to get near
enough for the farn beast to charge us."

They stopped. The forest was dense, the vines clinging.

"He'll want the bearers to hack a path for him," Mia said. "But we go
it alone. Damn him."

Ri twisted his mouth into a sour frown. He wiped at his forehead. "Hot.
By God, it's hot. I didn't think it was this hot, the first time we
were here."

Mia said, "The first time, _we_ weren't guides. We didn't notice it so
much then."

They fought a few yards more into the forest.

Then it ended. Or, rather, there was a wide gap. Before them lay a
blast area, unmistakable. The grass was beginning to grow again, but
the tree stumps were roasted from the rocket breath.

"This isn't ours!" Ri said. "This looks like it was made nearly a year
ago!"

Mia's eyes narrowed. "The military from Xnile?"

"No," Ri said. "They don't have any rockets this small. And I don't
think there's another cargo rocket on this planet outside of the one we
leased from the Club. Except the one _he_ brought."

"The ones who discovered the farn beasts in the first place?" Mia
asked. "You think it's their blast?"

"So?" Ri said. "But who are they?"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was Mia's turn to shrug. "Whoever they were, they couldn't have been
hunters. They'd have kept the secret better."

"We didn't do so damned well."

"We didn't have a chance," Mia objected. "Everybody and his brother had
heard the rumor that farn beasts were somewhere around here. It wasn't
our fault Extrone found out."

"I wish we hadn't shot our guide, then. I wish he was here instead of
us."

Mia shook perspiration out of his eyes. "We should have shot our pilot,
too. That was our mistake. The pilot must have been the one who told
Extrone we'd hunted this area."

"I didn't think a Club pilot would do that."

"After Extrone said he'd hunt farn beasts, even if it meant going to
the alien system? Listen, you don't know.... Wait a minute."

There was perspiration on Ri's upper lip.

"_I_ didn't tell Extrone, if that's what you're thinking," Mia said.

Ri's mouth twisted. "I didn't say you did."

"Listen," Mia said in a hoarse whisper. "I just thought. Listen. To
hell with how he found out. Here's the point. Maybe he'll shoot us,
too, when the hunt's over."

Ri licked his lips. "No. He wouldn't do that. We're not--not just
anybody. He couldn't kill us like that. Not even _him_. And besides,
why would he want to do that? It wouldn't do any good to shoot us. Too
many people already know about the farn beasts. You said that yourself."

Mia said, "I hope you're right." They stood side by side, studying the
blast area in silence. Finally, Mia said, "We better be getting back."

"What'll we tell him?"

"That we saw tracks. What else can we tell him?"

They turned back along their trail, stumbling over vines.

"It gets hotter at sunset," Ri said nervously.

"The breeze dies down."

"It's screwy. I didn't think farn beasts had this wide a range. There
must be a lot of them, to be on both sides of the ridge like this."

"There may be a pass," Mia said, pushing a vine away.

Ri wrinkled his brow, panting. "I guess that's it. If there were a lot
of them, we'd have heard something before we did. But even so, it's
damned funny, when you think about it."

Mia looked up at the darkening sky. "We better hurry," he said.

       *       *       *       *       *

When it came over the hastily established camp, the rocket was low,
obviously looking for a landing site. It was a military craft, from the
outpost on the near moon, and forward, near the nose, there was the
blazoned emblem of the Ninth Fleet. The rocket roared directly over
Extrone's tent, turned slowly, spouting fuel expensively, and settled
into the scrub forest, turning the vegetation beneath it sere by its
blasts.

Extrone sat on an upholstered stool before his tent and spat
disgustedly and combed his beard with his blunt fingers.

Shortly, from the direction of the rocket, a group of four high-ranking
officers came out of the forest, heading toward him. They were spruce,
the officers, with military discipline holding their waists in and
knees almost stiff.

"What in hell do you want?" Extrone asked.

They stopped a respectful distance away. "Sir...." one began.

"Haven't I told you gentlemen that rockets frighten the game?" Extrone
demanded, ominously not raising his voice.

"Sir," the lead officer said, "it's another alien ship. It was sighted
a few hours ago, off this very planet, sir."

Extrone's face looked much too innocent. "How did it get there,
gentlemen? Why wasn't it destroyed?"

"We lost it again, sir. Temporarily, sir."

"So?" Extrone mocked.

"We thought you ought to return to a safer planet, sir. Until we could
locate and destroy it."

Extrone stared at them for a space. Then, indifferently, he turned
away, in the direction of a resting bearer. "You!" he said. "Hey! Bring
me a drink!" He faced the officers again. He smiled maliciously. "I'm
staying here."

The lead officer licked his firm lower lip. "But, sir...."

Extrone toyed with his beard. "About a year ago, gentlemen, there was
an alien ship around here then, wasn't there? And you destroyed it,
didn't you?"

"Yes, sir. When we located it, sir."

"You'll destroy this one, too," Extrone said.

"We have a tight patrol, sir. It can't slip through. But it might try a
long range bombardment, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

Extrone said, "To begin with, they probably don't even know I'm here.
And they probably couldn't hit this area if they did know. And you
can't afford to let them get a shot at me, anyway."

"That's why we'd like you to return to an inner planet, sir."

Extrone plucked at his right ear lobe, half closing his eyes. "You'll
lose a fleet before you'll dare let anything happen to me, gentlemen.
I'm quite safe here, I think."

The bearer brought Extrone his drink.

"Get off," Extrone said quietly to the four officers.

Again they turned reluctantly. This time, he did not call them back.
Instead, with amusement, he watched until they disappeared into the
tangle of forest.

Dusk was falling. The takeoff blast of the rocket illuminated the area,
casting weird shadows on the gently swaying grasses; there was a hot
breath of dry air and the rocket dwindled toward the stars.

Extrone stood up lazily, stretching. He tossed the empty glass away,
listened for it to shatter. He reached out, parted the heavy flap to
his tent.

"Sir?" Ri said, hurrying toward him in the gathering darkness.

"Eh?" Extrone said, turning, startled. "Oh, you. Well?"

"We ... located signs of the farn beast, sir. To the east."

Extrone nodded. After a moment he said, "You killed one, I believe, on
_your_ trip?"

Ri shifted. "Yes, sir."

Extrone held back the flap of the tent. "Won't you come in?" he asked
without any politeness whatever.

Ri obeyed the order.

The inside of the tent was luxurious. The bed was of bulky feathers,
costly of transport space, the sleep curtains of silken gauze. The
floor, heavy, portable tile blocks, not the hollow kind, were neatly
and smoothly inset into the ground. Hanging from the center, to the
left of the slender, hand-carved center pole, was a chain of crystals.
They tinkled lightly when Extrone dropped the flap. The light was
electric from a portable dynamo. Extrone flipped it on. He crossed to
the bed, sat down.

"You were, I believe, the first ever to kill a farn beast?" he said.

"I.... No, sir. There must have been previous hunters, sir."

       *       *       *       *       *

Extrone narrowed his eyes. "I see by your eyes that you are
envious--that is the word, isn't it?--of my tent."

Ri looked away from his face.

"Perhaps I'm envious of your reputation as a hunter. You see, I have
never killed a farn beast. In fact, I haven't _seen_ a farn beast."

Ri glanced nervously around the tent, his sharp eyes avoiding Extrone's
glittering ones. "Few people have seen them, sir."

"Oh?" Extrone questioned mildly. "I wouldn't say that. I understand
that the aliens hunt them quite extensively ... on some of their
planets."

"I meant in our system, sir."

"Of course you did," Extrone said, lazily tracing the crease of his
sleeve with his forefinger. "I imagine these are the only farn beasts
in our system."

Ri waited uneasily, not answering.

"Yes," Extrone said, "I imagine they are. It would have been a shame if
you had killed the last one. Don't you think so?"

Ri's hands worried the sides of his outer garment. "Yes, sir. It would
have been."

Extrone pursed his lips. "It wouldn't have been very considerate of you
to--But, still, you gained valuable experience. I'm glad you agreed to
come along as my guide."

"It was an honor, sir."

Extrone's lip twisted in wry amusement. "If I had waited until it was
safe for me to hunt on an alien planet, I would not have been able to
find such an illustrious guide."

"... I'm flattered, sir."

"Of course," Extrone said. "But you should have spoken to me about it,
when you discovered the farn beast in our own system."

"I realize that, sir. That is, I had intended at the first opportunity,
sir...."

"Of course," Extrone said dryly. "Like all of my subjects," he waved
his hand in a broad gesture, "the highest as well as the lowest slave,
know me and love me. I know your intentions were the best."

Ri squirmed, his face pale. "We do indeed love you, sir."

Extrone bent forward. "_Know_ me and love me."

"Yes, sir. _Know_ you and love you, sir," Ri said.

"Get out!" Extrone said.

       *       *       *       *       *

"It's frightening," Ri said, "to be that close to him."

Mia nodded.

The two of them, beneath the leaf-swollen branches of the gnarled tree,
were seated on their sleeping bags. The moon was clear and cold and
bright in a cloudless sky; a small moon, smooth-surfaced, except for a
central mountain ridge that bisected it into almost twin hemispheres.

"To think of him. As flesh and blood. Not like the--well; that--what
we've read about."

Mia glanced suspiciously around him at the shadows. "You begin to
understand a lot of things, after seeing him."

Ri picked nervously at the cover of his sleeping bag.

"It makes you think," Mia added. He twitched. "I'm afraid. I'm afraid
he'll.... Listen, we'll talk. When we get back to civilization. You,
me, the bearers. About him. He can't let that happen. He'll kill us
first."

Ri looked up at the moon, shivering. "No. We have friends. We have
influence. He couldn't just like that--"

"He could say it was an accident."

"No," Ri said stubbornly.

"He can say anything," Mia insisted. "He can make people believe
anything. Whatever he says. There's no way to check on it."

"It's getting cold," Ri said.

"Listen," Mia pleaded.

"No," Ri said. "Even if we tried to tell them, they wouldn't listen.
Everybody would _know_ we were lying. Everything they've come to
believe would tell them we were lying. Everything they've read, every
picture they've seen. They wouldn't believe us. _He_ knows that."

"Listen," Mia repeated intently. "This is important. Right now he
couldn't afford to let us talk. Not right now. Because the Army is
not against him. Some officers were here, just before we came back. A
bearer overheard them talking. They don't _want_ to overthrow him!"

Ri's teeth, suddenly, were chattering.

"That's another lie," Mia continued. "That he protects the people from
the Army. That's a lie. I don't believe they were _ever_ plotting
against him. Not even at first. I think they _helped_ him, don't you
see?"

Ri whined nervously.

"It's like this," Mia said. "I see it like this. The Army _put_ him in
power when the people were in rebellion against military rule."

       *       *       *       *       *

Ri swallowed. "We couldn't make the people believe that."

"No?" Mia challenged. "Couldn't we? Not today, but what about tomorrow?
You'll see. Because I think the Army is getting ready to invade the
alien system!"

"The people won't support them," Ri answered woodenly.

"_Think._ If he tells them to, they will. They trust him."

Ri looked around at the shadows.

"That explains a lot of things," Mia said. "I think the Army's been
preparing for this for a long time. From the first, maybe. That's why
Extrone cut off our trade with the aliens. Partly to keep them from
learning that he was getting ready to invade them, but more to keep
them from exposing _him_ to the people. The aliens wouldn't be fooled
like we were, so easy."

"No!" Ri snapped. "It was to keep the natural economic balance."

"You know that's not right."

Ri lay down on his bed roll. "Don't talk about it. It's not good to
talk like this. I don't even want to listen."

"When the invasion starts, he'll have to command _all_ their loyalties.
To keep them from revolt again. They'd be ready to believe us, then.
He'll have a hard enough time without people running around trying to
tell the truth."

"You're wrong. He's not like that. I know you're wrong."

Mia smiled twistedly. "How many has he already killed? How can we even
guess?"

Ri swallowed sickly.

"Remember our guide? To keep our hunting territory a secret?"

Ri shuddered. "That's different. Don't you see? This is not at all like
that."

       *       *       *       *       *

With morning came birds' songs, came dew, came breakfast smells.
The air was sweet with cooking and it was nostalgic, childhoodlike,
uncontaminated.

And Extrone stepped out of the tent, fully dressed, surly, letting the
flap slap loudly behind him. He stretched hungrily and stared around
the camp, his eyes still vacant-mean with sleep.

"Breakfast!" he shouted, and two bearers came running with a folding
table and chair. Behind them, a third bearer, carrying a tray of
various foods; and yet behind him, a fourth, with a steaming pitcher
and a drinking mug.

Extrone ate hugely, with none of the delicacy sometimes affected in his
conversational gestures. When he had finished, he washed his mouth with
water and spat on the ground.

"Lin!" he said.

His personal bearer came loping toward him.

"Have you read that manual I gave you?"

Lin nodded. "Yes."

Extrone pushed the table away. He smacked his lips wetly. "Very
ludicrous, Lin. Have you noticed that I have two businessmen for
guides? It occurred to me when I got up. They would have spat on me,
twenty years ago, damn them."

Lin waited.

"Now I can spit on them, which pleases me."

"The farn beasts are dangerous, sir," Lin said.

"Eh? Oh, yes. Those. What did the manual say about them?"

"I believe they're carnivorous, sir."

"An alien manual. That's ludicrous, too. That we have the only
information on our newly discovered fauna from an alien manual--and, of
course, two businessmen."

"They have very long, sharp fangs, and, when enraged, are capable of
tearing a man--"

"An alien?" Extrone corrected.

"There's not enough difference between us to matter, sir. Of tearing an
alien to pieces, sir."

Extrone laughed harshly. "It's 'sir' whenever you contradict me?"

Lin's face remained impassive. "I guess it seems that way. Sir."

"Damned few people would dare go as far as you do," Extrone said. "But
you're afraid of me, too, in your own way, aren't you?"

Lin shrugged. "Maybe."

"I can see you are. Even my wives are. I wonder if anyone can know how
wonderful it feels to have people _all_ afraid of you."

"The farn beasts, according to the manual...."

"You are very insistent on one subject."

"... It's the only thing I know anything about. The farn beast, as I
was saying, sir, is the particular enemy of men. Or if you like, of
aliens. Sir."

"All right," Extrone said, annoyed. "I'll be careful."

In the distance, a farn beast coughed.

Instantly alert, Extrone said, "Get the bearers! Have some of them cut
a path through that damn thicket! And tell those two businessmen to get
the hell over here!"

Lin smiled, his eyes suddenly afire with the excitement of the hunt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Four hours later, they were well into the scrub forest. Extrone walked
leisurely, well back of the cutters, who hacked away, methodically, at
the vines and branches which might impede his forward progress. Their
sharp, awkward knives snickered rhythmically to the rasp of their heavy
breathing.

Occasionally, Extrone halted, motioned for his water carrier, and drank
deeply of the icy water to allay the heat of the forest, a heat made
oppressive by the press of foliage against the outside air.

Ranging out, on both sides of the central body, the two businessmen
fought independently against the wild growth, each scouting the flanks
for farn beasts, and ahead, beyond the cutters, Lin flittered among the
tree trunks, sometimes far, sometimes near.

Extrone carried the only weapon, slung easily over his shoulder, a
powerful blast rifle, capable of piercing medium armor in sustained
fire. To his rear, the water carrier was trailed by a man bearing a
folding stool, and behind him, a man carrying the heavy, high-powered
two-way communication set.

Once Extrone unslung his blast rifle and triggered a burst at a tiny,
arboreal mammal, which, upon the impact, shattered asunder, to
Extrone's satisfied chuckle, in a burst of blood and fur.

When the sun stood high and heat exhaustion made the near-naked bearers
slump, Extrone permitted a rest. While waiting for the march to resume,
he sat on the stool with his back against an ancient tree and patted,
reflectively, the blast rifle, lying across his legs.

"For you, sir," the communications man said, interrupting his reverie.

"Damn," Extrone muttered. His face twisted in anger. "It better be
important." He took the head-set and mike and nodded to the bearer. The
bearer twiddled the dials.

"Extrone. Eh?... Oh, you got their ship. Well, why in hell bother
me?... All right, so they found out I was here. You got them, didn't
you?"

"Blasted them right out of space," the voice crackled excitedly. "Right
in the middle of a radio broadcast, sir."

"I don't want to listen to your gabbling when I'm hunting!" Extrone
tore off the head-set and handed it to the bearer. "If they call back,
find out what they want, first. I don't want to be bothered unless it's
important."

"Yes, sir."

Extrone squinted up at the sun; his eyes crinkled under the glare, and
perspiration stood in little droplets on the back of his hands.

Lin, returning to the column, threaded his way among reclining
bearers. He stopped before Extrone and tossed his hair out of his eyes.
"I located a spoor," he said, suppressed eagerness in his voice. "About
a quarter ahead. It looks fresh."

Extrone's eyes lit with passion.

Lin's face was red with heat and grimy with sweat. "There were two, I
think."

"Two?" Extrone grinned, petting the rifle. "You and I better go forward
and look at the spoor."

Lin said, "We ought to take protection, if you're going, too."

Extrone laughed. "This is enough." He gestured with the rifle and stood
up.

"I wish you had let me bring a gun along, sir," Lin said.

"One is enough in _my_ camp."

       *       *       *       *       *

The two of them went forward, alone, into the forest. Extrone moved
agilely through the tangle, following Lin closely. When they came to
the tracks, heavily pressed into drying mud around a small watering
hole, Extrone nodded his head in satisfaction.

"This way," Lin said, pointing, and once more the two of them started
off.

They went a good distance through the forest, Extrone becoming more
alert with each additional foot. Finally, Lin stopped him with a
restraining hand. "They may be quite a way ahead. Hadn't we ought to
bring up the column?"

The farn beast, somewhere beyond a ragged clump of bushes, coughed.
Extrone clenched the blast rifle convulsively.

The farn beast coughed again, more distant this time.

"They're moving away," Lin said.

"Damn!" Extrone said.

"It's a good thing the wind's right, or they'd be coming back, and
fast, too."

"Eh?" Extrone said.

"They charge on scent, sight, or sound. I understand they will track
down a man for as long as a day."

"Wait," Extrone said, combing his beard. "Wait a minute."

"Yes?"

"Look," Extrone said. "If that's the case, why do we bother tracking
them? Why not make them come to us?"

"They're too unpredictable. It wouldn't be safe. I'd rather have
surprise on our side."

"You don't seem to see what I mean," Extrone said. "_We_ won't be
the--ah--the bait."

"Oh?"

"Let's get back to the column."

       *       *       *       *       *

"Extrone wants to see you," Lin said.

Ri twisted at the grass shoot, broke it off, worried and unhappy.
"What's he want to see _me_ for?"

"I don't know," Lin said curtly.

Ri got to his feet. One of his hands reached out, plucked nervously
at Lin's bare forearm. "Look," he whispered. "You know him. I have--a
little money. If you were able to ... if he wants," Ri gulped, "to
_do_ anything to me--I'd pay you, if you could...."

"You better come along," Lin said, turning.

Ri rubbed his hands along his thighs; he sighed, a tiny sound,
ineffectual. He followed Lin beyond an outcropping of shale to where
Extrone was seated, petting his rifle.

Extrone nodded genially. "The farn beast hunter, eh?"

"Yes, sir."

Extrone drummed his fingers on the stock of the blast rifle. "Tell me
what they look like," he said suddenly.

"Well, sir, they're ... uh...."

"Pretty frightening?"

"No, sir.... Well, in a way, sir."

"But _you_ weren't afraid of them, were you?"

"No, sir. No, because...."

Extrone was smiling innocently. "Good. I want you to do something for
me."

"I ... I...." Ri glanced nervously at Lin out of the tail of his eye.
Lin's face was impassive.

"Of _course_ you will," Extrone said genially. "Get me a rope, Lin. A
good, long, strong rope."

"What are you going to do?" Ri asked, terrified.

"Why, I'm going to tie the rope around your waist and stake you out as
bait."

"No!"

"Oh, come now. When the farn beast hears you scream--you _can_ scream,
by the way?"

Ri swallowed.

"We could find a way to make you."

There was perspiration trickling down Ri's forehead, a single drop,
creeping toward his nose.

"You'll be safe," Extrone said, studying his face with amusement. "I'll
shoot the animal before it reaches you."

Ri gulped for air. "But ... if there should be more than one?"

Extrone shrugged.

"I--Look, sir. Listen to me." Ri's lips were bloodless and his hands
were trembling. "It's not me you want to do this to. It's Mia, sir.
_He_ killed a farn beast before _I_ did, sir. And last night--last
night, he--"

"He what?" Extrone demanded, leaning forward intently.

Ri breathed with a gurgling sound. "He said he ought to kill you, sir.
That's what he said. I heard him, sir. He said he ought to kill you.
He's the one you ought to use for bait. Then if there was an accident,
sir, it wouldn't matter, because he said he ought to kill you. I
wouldn't...."

Extrone said, "Which one is he?"

"That one. Right over there."

"The one with his back to me?"

"Yes, sir. That's him. That's him, sir."

Extrone aimed carefully and fired, full charge, then lowered the rifle
and said, "Here comes Lin with the rope, I see."

Ri was greenish. "You ... you...."

Extrone turned to Lin. "Tie one end around his waist."

"Wait," Ri begged, fighting off the rope with his hands. "You don't
want to use me, sir. Not after I told you.... Please, sir. If anything
should happen to me.... Please, sir. Don't do it."

"Tie it," Extrone ordered.

"No, sir. Please. Oh, _please_ don't, sir."

"Tie it," Extrone said inexorably.

Lin bent with the rope; his face was colorless.

       *       *       *       *       *

They were at the watering hole--Extrone, Lin, two bearers, and Ri.

Since the hole was drying, the left, partially exposed bank was steep
toward the muddy water. Upon it was green, new grass, tender-tuffed,
half mashed in places by heavy animal treads. It was there that they
staked him out, tying the free end of the rope tightly around the base
of a scaling tree.

"You will scream," Extrone instructed. With his rifle, he pointed
across the water hole. "The farn beast will come from this direction, I
imagine."

Ri was almost slobbering in fear.

"Let me hear you scream," Extrone said.

Ri moaned weakly.

"You'll have to do better than that." Extrone inclined his head toward
a bearer, who used something Ri couldn't see.

Ri screamed.

"See that you keep it up that way," Extrone said. "That's the way I
want you to sound." He turned toward Lin. "We can climb this tree, I
think."

Slowly, aided by the bearers, the two men climbed the tree, bark
peeling away from under their rough boots. Ri watched them hopelessly.

Once at the crotch, Extrone settled down, holding the rifle at alert.
Lin moved to the left, out on the main branch, rested in a smaller
crotch.

Looking down, Extrone said, "Scream!" Then, to Lin, "You feel the
excitement? It's always in the air like this at a hunt."

"I feel it," Lin said.

Extrone chuckled. "You were with me on Meizque?"

"Yes."

"That was something, that time." He ran his hand along the stock of the
weapon.

The sun headed west, veiling itself with trees; a large insect circled
Extrone's head. He slapped at it, angry. The forest was quiet,
underlined by an occasional piping call, something like a whistle. Ri's
screams were shrill, echoing away, shiveringly. Lin sat quiet, hunched.

Extrone's eyes narrowed, and he began to pet the gun stock with quick,
jerky movements. Lin licked his lips, keeping his eyes on Extrone's
face. The sun seemed stuck in the sky, and the heat squeezed against
them, sucking at their breath like a vacuum. The insect went away.
Still, endless, hopeless, monotonous, Ri screamed.

       *       *       *       *       *

A farn beast coughed, far in the matted forest.

Extrone laughed nervously. "He must have heard."

"We're lucky to rouse one so fast," Lin said.

Extrone dug his boot cleats into the tree, braced himself. "I like
this. There's more excitement in waiting like this than in anything I
know."

Lin nodded.

"The waiting, itself, is a lot. The suspense. It's not only the killing
that matters."

"It's not _only_ the killing," Lin echoed.

"You understand?" Extrone said. "How it is to wait, knowing in just a
minute something is going to come out of the forest, and you're going
to kill it?"

"I know," Lin said.

"But it's not only the killing. It's the waiting, too."

The farn beast coughed again; nearer.

"It's a different one," Lin said.

"How do you know?"

"Hear the lower pitch, the more of a roar?"

"Hey!" Extrone shouted. "You, down there. There are two coming. Now
let's hear you really scream!"

Ri, below, whimpered childishly and began to retreat toward the tether
tree, his eyes wide.

"There's a lot of satisfaction in fooling them, too," Extrone said.
"Making them come to your bait, where you can get at them." He
opened his right hand. "Choose your ground, set your trap. Bait it."
He snapped his hand into a fist, held the fist up before his eyes,
imprisoning the idea. "Spring the trap when the quarry is inside.
Clever. That makes the waiting more interesting. Waiting to see if they
really will come to your bait."

Lin shifted, staring toward the forest.

"I've always liked to hunt," Extrone said. "More than anything else, I
think."

Lin spat toward the ground. "People should hunt because they have to.
For food. For safety."

"No," Extrone argued. "People should hunt for the love of hunting."

"Killing?"

"Hunting," Extrone repeated harshly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The farn beast coughed. Another answered. They were very near, and
there was a noise of crackling underbrush.

"He's good bait," Extrone said. "He's fat enough and he knows how to
scream good."

Ri had stopped screaming; he was huddled against the tree, fearfully
eying the forest across from the watering hole.

Extrone began to tremble with excitement. "Here they come!"

The forest sprang apart. Extrone bent forward, the gun still across his
lap.

The farn beast, its tiny eyes red with hate, stepped out on the bank,
swinging its head wildly, its nostrils flaring in anger. It coughed.
Its mate appeared beside it. Their tails thrashed against the scrubs
behind them, rattling leaves.

"Shoot!" Lin hissed. "For God's sake, shoot!"

"Wait," Extrone said. "Let's see what they do." He had not moved
the rifle. He was tense, bent forward, his eyes slitted, his breath
beginning to sound like an asthmatic pump.

The lead farn beast sighted Ri. It lowered its head.

"Look!" Extrone cried excitedly. "Here it comes!"

Ri began to scream again.

Still Extrone did not lift his blast rifle. He was laughing. Lin
waited, frozen, his eyes staring at the farn beast in fascination.

The farn beast plunged into the water, which was shallow, and, throwing
a sheet of it to either side, headed across toward Ri.

"Watch! Watch!" Extrone cried gleefully.

And then the aliens sprang their trap.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Hunt the Hunter, by Kris Neville

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK HUNT THE HUNTER ***

***** This file should be named 51433.txt or 51433.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/1/4/3/51433/

Produced by Greg Weeks, Mary Meehan and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org/license

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
