Title: Versace (Remix)
Artist: Migos

[Intro: Drake & Quavo]
(Zaytoven)
Yeah
Oh shit, man, who that is?
Shoutout Migos, shoutout Zaytoven one time
That's Migos and Drake at the Versace store

[Verse 1: Drake, Quavo & Takeoff]
Versace, Versace
Medusa head on me like I'm Illuminati (Versace!)
This is a gated community
Please get the fuck off the property (gate!)
Rap must be changin'
'Cause I'm at the top and ain't no one on top of me (woo!)
Niggas be wantin' a verse for a verse
But man, that's not a swap to me (nah!)
Drownin' in compliments
Pool in the backyard that look like Metropolis (Metropolis?)
I think I'm sellin' a million first week
Man, I guess I'm a optimist (milli!)
Born in Toronto but sometimes I feel like Atlanta adopted us (go!)
What the fuck is you talkin' 'bout?
Saw this shit comin' like I had binoculars, boy
Versace, Versace
We stay at the mansion when we in Miami
The pillows Versace, the sheets are Versace
I just won a Grammy (woo!)
I been so quiet, I got the world like
"What the fuck is he plannin'?" (What?)
Just make sure that you got a back up plan
'Cause that shit might come in handy (go, go!)
Started a label, the album is comin' September
Just wait on it (just wait on it!)
This year I'm eatin' your food
And my table got so many plates on it (so many!) (damn!)
Hundred-inch TV at my house
I sit back like "Damn, I look great on it!" (damn, I look good!)
I do not fuck with your new shit, my nigga
Don't ask for my take on it (don't ask for my opinion!)
Speakin' in lingo, man, this for my nigga
That trap out the bando (bando, bando!)
This for my niggas that call up Fernando to move a piano (brr, brr, brr!)
Fuck all your feelin' 'cause business is business
It's strictly financial (business is business!)
I'm always the first one to get it, man
That's how you lead by example (I got it!)
Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace (Versace!)
Word in New York is the Dyckman and Heights girls are callin' me Papi (woo, woo)
I'm all on the low
Take a famous girl out where there's no paparazzi (flash!)
I'm tryna give Halle Berry a baby and no one can stop me (smash!)

[Chorus: Quavo]
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace

[Verse 2: Quavo]
Versace, Versace
Medusa head on me like I'm Illuminati
I know that you like it
Versace, my neck and my wrist is so sloppy
Versace, Versace
I love it, Versace, the top of my Audi
My plug, he John Gotti
He give me the ducks, I know that they're mighty
Shoes and shirt Versace
Your bitch want in on my pockets
She ask me why my drawers silk
I told that bitch "Versace"
Cheetah print on my sleeve
But I ain't never been in the jungle
Try to take my sack
Better run with it, nigga, don't fumble

[Chorus: Quavo]
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace

[Verse 3: Takeoff]
You can do Truey, I do it Versace
You copped the Honda, I copped the Mazi
You smoke the mid, I smoke exotic
I set the trend, you niggas copy
Cookin' this dope like I work at Hibachi
Look at the watch, it blow hot like some Taki
Come in my room, my sheet Versace
When I go to sleep I dream Versace
Medusa, Medusa, Medusa
These niggas, they wishin' they knew you
They coppin' the Truey, remixin' the Louis
My blunts is fat as Rasputia
In a striped shirt like I’m Tony the Tiger
I'm beatin' the pot, call me Michael
Lot of you niggas that copy
Look at my closet, Versace, Versace

[Chorus: Quavo]
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace

[Verse 4: Offset]
King of Versace, Medusa my wifey
My car is Versace, I got stripes on my Mazi
I'm dressin' so nicely they can't even copy
You'd think I'm Egyptian, this gold on my body
Money my mission, two bitches
They kissin', my diamonds is pissin', my swag is exquisite
Young Offset no preacher but you niggas listen
Them blue and white diamonds, they look like the Pistons
Codeine sippin', Versace, I'm grippin'
Them bands in my pocket, you know that I’m livin'
I'm draped up in gold, but no Pharaoh
Rockin' handcuffs: that's Ferragamo
Bricks by the boat, overload
I think I'm the don but no Rocco
This the life that I chose
Bought out the store, can't go back no more
Versace my clothes while I'm sellin' them bows
Versace take over, it took out my soul

[Chorus: Quavo]
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace
Versace, Versace Versace, Versace Versace

