Title: Where Ya At
Artist: Future

[Intro]
I don't wanna hear at that, I don't wanna hear none of that
Talkin' to cameras like "What you need?" and all that shit
Fuck that shit, I don't remember none of that shit

[Chorus: Future]
Where your ass was at, dog, when niggas wouldn’t feed me?
Where your ass was at, dog, when bitches didn’t need me?
Where your ass was at, dog, when niggas tried to run off?
Where your ass was at, dog? You made me pull this gun out

[Verse 1: Future]
Where your ass was at, dog, you went and switched sides?
Where your ass was at, dog, when niggas spread lies on him?
Where your ass was at, dog, when the bodies came sliding?
Where your ass was at, dog, when I was serving pies?
Where your ass was at, dog, when niggas wouldn’t feed me?
Where your ass was at, dog, when bitches didn’t need me?
Where your ass was at, dog, when niggas tried to run off?
Where your ass was at, dog? You made me pull this gun out
Where your ass was at, dog, when I was in the Pyrex?
Where your ass was at, dog, when I was drinking Hi-Tech?
Where your ass was at, dog? You came through the projects
Where your ass at? We keep that fully loaded contracts
Had her rain dance on the dick, ass jumping
Running through the pussy like a nigga going jogging
Fuck a little Louis, put it in a bitch pocket
Put a pic with me on the 'gram, now you popping
Where your ass was at when I was trapping in the store?
Had to struggle to get where I'm at and sell dope
Jackie Chan moves got game in the choke
Gas rolling up in the blunt, Amoco
12 tryin' come in the spot to open up the dope
Burglar bar doors got a young nigga confident
Juugin' out the stove and we still bangin', honest
Blowing on the O, yo, we call that ho an onion

[Verse 2: Drake]
Man, where your ass was at when we took the city over?
Where your ass was at when all they'd ask was "what's the hold up?"
Where your ass was at when niggas first got the news?
Now your ass around because we’re paying back dues
Where were you? When all the dogs needed help
Lawyers and the commissary ain’t gon’ pay itself
Where your ass was at when we recorded in the bathroom?
Where your ass was at? I take attendance like a classroom
Man I ain’t got no choice
Cause nowadays I swear this shit done changed up for the boy
I’m self-made, selfish with my women, self-employed
I’ll buy the neighbor's house if they complain about the noise
Man, where your ass was at, dog, when niggas wouldn’t feed me?
Where your ass was at, dog, when bitches didn’t need me?
Where your ass was at, last winter was the coldest?
Fuck where you was at, I had the 6 on my shoulders

[Chorus: Future]
Where your ass was at dog, when niggas wouldn’t feed me?
Where your ass was at dog, when bitches didn’t need me?
Where your ass was at dog, when niggas tried to run off?
Where your ass was at dog? You made me pull this gun out

[Verse 3: Future]
60 for a walk through, bitch don’t panic
Had them bitches fall through fucking like a savage
Heard you tryna swim in the ocean no jacket
Heard that nigga came through squeezing on a ratchet
Heard that nigga came through squeezing on a ratchet
Serve a lot of dog food, call you a mutt
Where your ass was at dog, when I was on my come-up?
The reason I’m here today cause I ain't never gave up

[Chorus: Future]
Where your ass was at, dog, when niggas wouldn’t feed me?
Where your ass was at, dog, when bitches didn’t need me?
Where your ass was at, dog, when niggas tried to run off?
Where your ass was at, dog? You made me pull this gun out

[Outro: Future]
Where you ass was at, when I was trapping in the store?
Had to struggle to get where I'm at and sell dope
Juugin' out the stove and we still bangin', honest
Blowing on the O, yo, we call that ho an onion

