Title: No Limit REMIX
Artist: G-Eazy


[Intro: Juicy J]
Yeah, ho!
Yeah, ho!
Yeah, ho!
Yeah!

[Chorus: A$AP Rocky]
If I hit it one time, I'ma pipe her
If I hit it two times, then I like her
If I fuck three times, I'ma wife her
It ain't safe for the black or the white girls
It ain't safe, it ain't safe, it ain't safe, it ain't safe
Tell your man pipe up, nigga, pipe up
Hunnit bands from the safe in your face, what'd you say?
Money dance, turn this shit into a nightclub

[Post-Chorus: G-Eazy & French Montana]
Ayy, yeah, fuck with me and get some money
Yeah, ayy, fuck with me and get some money (Montana!)
Ayy, yeah, fuck with me and get some money (G-Eazy, han!)
Ayy, yeah, fuck with (ayy, ayy, skrt, skrt!)

[Verse 1: French Montana]
Lighters up, steam out the roof (roof, roof)
Piped up, spittin' like the grill need a tooth (tooth, tooth)
Turnt-turnt up, yeah, I need Camila in the group (group, group)
Paper up, double pumpin', big with the loot (loot, loot)
It ain't safe, it ain't safe, million cash in a safe
French Vanilla by the case, fuck the cuffs, where my bracelet?
Frenchy is the name, CB is the gang
Let's call the boys, call a couple planes
R-r-ring on like a mason
Her pussy wet, cash long, Kyrie with the mask on
Keep a hunnit, come and get some hunnits
Fuck, fuck with me and get some money
We gon' make it disappear, David Copperfield
Drop top on the Ville like a lobster tail
Talk the best, box free like Akinyele
Talk 'bout the best bitch for a happy meal

[Verse 2: G-Eazy]
Yeah, ayy, yeah, fuck with me and get some money
Yeah, in Miami partying with Puffy
Ayy, she want to fuck, I told her bring her buddy
Ayy, yeah, suck a- suck a dick or something
Yeah, what's understood ain't gotta be explained
Ayy, strippers at 11 keep me entertained
Money dance, money dance, just to make it rain
Yeah, third album, nothing was the same
It ain't safe, it ain't safe, A-$-A-P
I come from The Bay where the cuddies say "Yee"
Touchdown in the town, I'm as big as KD
See NBA money, plant a fucking money tree, ayy
Diamonds, crystal geyser
Big body, that 488's wider
Pulling up like along came a spider
The fourth time I put a baby inside her
Young Gerald

[Chorus: A$AP Rocky]
If I hit it one time, I'ma pipe her
If I hit it two times, then I like her
If I fuck three times, I'ma wife her
It ain't safe for the black or the white girls
It ain't safe, it ain't safe, it ain't safe, it ain't safe
Tell your man pipe up, nigga, pipe up
Hunnit bands from the safe in your face, what'd you say?
Money dance, turn this shit into a nightclub

[Verse 3: Juicy J]
Slob on my knob, like corn on the cob
I break a bitch, like Chyna did Rob
Put a ho to work like she went and got a job
Everybody hit man, welcome to the mob (Mafia!)
Pull up another whip or something, yeah, a different one
Fuck up another VIP or something, I've been killing 'em
Smoke another zip or something, Billy Kimbered up
Take another sip or some, I ain't lit enough
It ain't safe, it ain't safe, got them guns in my Wraith
Got them ones everywhere, she got them buns in my face
I got girls on the pole, like they tryna win a race
Free that nigga Tay K, I just got another case
We get drugged up, and tear the club up
You too boring for the bitch, get your funds up
It ain't safe, it ain't safe, all these diamonds in the face
Fuck around and turn that bitch to Stevie Wonder
Yeah, ho!

[Post-Chorus: Belly]
Fuck with B and get some money (Belly)
Fuck with B and get some money (it's me!)
Fuck with B and get some money
Uhh

[Verse 4: Belly]
Screaming "uhhh"; Master P
Baby, that ass looking like a masterpiece
Used to open doors with a half a key
Fishscale by the whale, call it catch release (aw yeah)
No limit to it, no limit
I'm still with the go-getters and the gorillas
Old paper got me dressed up like a dope dealer
Like a wholesale of money, smellin' like a co-seller (yee)
It ain't safe (no)
Turkey bags on me, I ain’t giving thanks (hello)
Shoe box for my very first bank (hello)
I might pull up on your court with the tank (no limit!)

[Chorus: A$AP Rocky]
If I hit it one time, I'ma pipe her
If I hit it two times, then I like her
If I fuck three times, I'ma wife her
It ain't safe for the black or the white girls
It ain't safe, it ain't safe, it ain't safe, it ain't safe
Tell your man pipe up, nigga, pipe up
Hunnit bands from the safe in your face, what'd you say?
Money dance, turn this shit into a nightclub

[Post-Chorus: G-Eazy]
Ayy, yeah, fuck with me and get some money
Yeah, ayy, fuck with me and get some money
Ayy, yeah, fuck with me and get some money
Ayy, yeah, fuck with G and get some money

