Title: Antidote
Artist: Travis Scott

[Produced by Eestbound & WondaGurl]

[Chorus]
Don't you open up that window
Don't you let out that antidote (Yeah!)
Poppin' pills is all we know (Ooh!)
In the hills is all we know (Hollywood!)
Don't go through the front door (Through the back!)
It's lowkey at the night show (Ooh!)
So don't you open up that window (Ooh!)
Don't you let out that antidote (Yeah!)

[Verse 1]
Party on a Sunday (That was fun!)
Do it all again on Monday (One more time!)
Spent a check on a weekend (Oh my God!)
I might do it all again (That's boss shit)
I just hit a three peat (Ooh!)
Fucked three hoes I met this week (Robert Horry!)
I don't do no old hoes (Oh, no, no)
My nigga, that's a no-no (Straight up!)
She just want the coco (Cocaína!)
I just want dinero (Paper huntin', well!)
Who that at the front door? (Who that is?)
If it's the feds, oh, no, no, no (Don't let 'em in, shhh!)

[Chorus]
Don't you open up that window (Yah!)
Don't you let out that antidote (Yah, ooh)
Poppin' pills is all we know (Yah!)
In the hills is all we know (Hollywood)
Don't go through the front door (In the back!)
It's lowkey at the night show (Ooh!)

[Post-Chorus]
Ayy, ooh, ooh
At the night show (Oooohh-wah)
At the night show (Higher)
At the night show (Oooohh-wah)
Ooh, at the night show (Get lit, my nigga)
Ooh, at the night show

[Verse 2]
Anything can happen at the night show (Yah!)
Everything can happen at the night show (Oooohh-wah)
Ooh, at the night show
Anything can happen at the night show (Yah!)
Ooh, at the night show
Ooh, your bitch not at home, she at the night show
Ooh (Straight up!) fuckin' right, ho
Ooh, had to catch a flight for the night show
Ooh (Let's go!) let's get piped though
Bottles got us right though, we ain't sippin' light, no
Aaahhhhhhh! (La Flame!) I ain't got no type though
Only got one night though, we can do it twice though

[Bridge]
(Aaaahhhhhhhh!) It's lit! At the night show
Ooh, at the night show (Ooh, ooh)
At the night show
Ooh, at the night show
Yeah, at the night show
Everything can happen at the night show
Ooh, at the night show
Anything can happen at the night show
Ooh

[Verse 3]
Stackin' up day to day, young nigga
You know you gotta go get it, go get it, my nigga
They hatin', they stankin', they waitin'
Don't be mistaken, we dyin', they stayin'
Lord, I'm on fire, they think that I'm Satan
Callin' me crazy on different occasions
Kickin' the cameraman off of my stages
'Cause I don't like how he snappin' my angles
I'm overboard and I'm over-impatient
Over my niggas and these kids my ages
Dealin' with Mo' shit that's more complicated
Like these two bitches that might be related
H-Town, you got one
And you Bun B like a number one
It's late night, got a late show
If you wanna roll, I got a place where—

[Chorus]
Poppin' pills is all we know (Ooh!)
In the hills is all we know (Hollywood!)
Don't go through the front door (Through the back!)
It's lowkey at the night show (Ooh!)
So don't you open up that window (Ooh!)
Don't you let out that antidote

